Top of main content 
Help
Find the support you need
How can we help today?
Search
Popular topics 
Card support 
Activate a new card, or put a temporary block on one if you've misplaced it. 
Digital reset 
If you're locked out of mobile or online banking or have forgotten your log on details, our digital banking help tool will get you back online quickly and easily. 
Making payments 
Use our payments tool to help you make and manage new or existing payments.
Confirm your online card payments 
Find out about the new measures to help keep you safe from fraud. 
Going on holiday 
Find out how to bank more easily when outside the UK. 
Feedback and complaints 
Share your concerns and find an answer. 
Find help by category 
Ways to bank 
Mobile banking 
Online banking 
Phone banking 
Cards 
Lost, stolen or damaged cards 
Activate your card 
Credit card repayment options 
Banking support 
Setting up a Direct Debit 
Mobile and online statements 
What you need for an ID check 
Fraud and security 
Lost your details? 
Report a problem 
Fraud guide 
What other people are asking 
Why has my online card payment been declined? 
Online retailers now need to ask for additional checks to confirm that it’s really you using your card. They will present a screen during the checkout process which will allow us to carry out theses extra checks.
Some retailers may not be ready to ask for these checks and you may find that a payment is declined, even if there are no issues with your account or your card.

If the retailer hasn't asked for payment confirmation and it has been declined, please contact them directly to ask for other ways they can accept your payment.
What fees are there for transferring my credit card balance and going over my credit card limit? 
If you transfer your credit card balance to HSBC from another provider, there's usually a one-off fee.
You'll also be charged a fee if you go over your agreed credit limit. 
You can find out more about balance transfer fees and how to increase your credit limit on our credit card fees and rates page.
Where can I get help with my balances and transactions? 
To find out more about your balances and what they mean, visit our understanding your balance page. 
Where can I get help with my Secure Key? 
If you’re having trouble with your Secure Key, our Secure Key help page will give you all the information you need. 
How do I set up, amend or cancel a Direct Debit or standing order? 
Our standing order and Direct Debit pages explain how to manage your regular payments. 
How do I get a Certificate of Interest? 
If you need a Certificate of Interest (Tax Certificate) to complete your tax self-assessment, please send us a secure e-message in online banking or by using chat in the mobile banking app.
The Certification of Interest confirms the total amount of credit interest paid into an account over the tax year.
Once we receive your request, we’ll post this to you within 7 working days.
Explore more 
Money worries 
We can help find the right solution for you. 
Financial fitness 
From budgeting to investing - give your finances a health check and make your money work for you. 
Life events 
Get advice on managing your money through life's ups and downs. 
New beginnings 
When you're embarking on a new chapter, we're here to help, so you can focus on the things that matter most. 
Still need help? 
If you haven't found what you're looking for and need to talk to someone, here's how to get in touch. 
Contact us 
Start an online chat or give us a call. 
Find a branch 
Come and see us in person.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/
########Top of main content 
Retirement 
We'll help you on the way to achieving your ideal retirement lifestyle
Paving your way to a better quality of life 
The HSBC Quality of Life Index explores the overlap between physical, mental and financial wellbeing. See how prioritising your whole self can give you a higher quality of life. 
Living your best life, in later life 
Get tips on how to visualise your retirement lifestyle, so you can put plans in place to make it happen. 
Calculate your retirement lifestyle 
Take our quiz to work out your ideal retirement lifestyle and how much you may need to achieve it. 
Get in touch 
Arrange a call back 
Leave your details and one of our wealth specialists will call you back to talk about how we can help. 
The first steps to planning your retirement 
We've put together some helpful guides and checklists, so you'll have a better idea of how to get started. 
Checklist for planning your retirement 
Take a look at our list of things you could do to plan for your retirement at each stage of life. 
6 simple ways to save for your future 
Read our 6 tips to help you on the road to financial freedom, without compromising your lifestyle today. 
How much do you need to retire? 
We'll help you work out how much money you might need when you retire and how your living costs could change. 
Grow your money for retirement 
Find out how investing could help you grow your wealth, and reach your retirement goals quicker. 
Invest for your retirement 
From ready-made portfolios to choosing your own, find out about our investment options that could let you achieve your retirement goals.
Remember, investing has its downs as well as ups - and you could get back less than you invest.
Understand more about pensions and retirement 
Read our guides to learn more about pensions and the different retirement options. 
Unlocking success in Act 2 
Explore ways to plan for a secure future and embrace an active retirement. 
Should you invest in a pension or an ISA? 
Explore the features of each, and learn why it could be good to invest in both. 
What is a workplace pension? 
Understand more about workplace pensions and how they can help you live the way you want to when you retire. 
What to do if you haven’t saved enough for your retirement 
Find out some options to help you save more. Act now to give your money more time to grow. 
Should you consolidate your pensions? 
We explore things to check before combining pensions into one and how to get advice. 
What is financial planning? 
Find out how to plan and achieve your goals, lower your stress and manage your money. 
What is a pension - and why should you care? 
Find out how a pension works and why you need one. Plus, learn more about the different types available. 
How women can boost their retirement savings 
Discover positive changes you can make today that could help you fill a pension shortfall. 
Living in retirement 
Learn how you can make more of your money once you've retired. 
How to manage your pension pot in retirement 
Explore the different ways to access your money – from taking a tax-free lump sum to drawing an income. 
How to invest for an income in retirement 
When you're retired, it's important to manage your investments carefully. Here are a few things to consider. 
Other steps to prepare for later life 
Get more familiar with the other financial aspects of preparing for later life. 
How to make a will 
Discover more about how to make a will and why it's important. We'll explain more about the financial benefits. 
What is inheritance tax? 
Find out how it’s possible to reduce your inheritance tax – and even pay none at all.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/
########Top of main content 
International services
Whether you’re living, studying or investing abroad, our international banking services help you feel at home wherever you are.
Global Money 
Convert, send or spend multiple currencies around the world, with no HSBC fees. 2
1
Bank internationally with HSBC 
From seamless digital banking and special offers abroad, to wealth management, tax and relocation guidance, we move with you – whatever your global banking needs are. 
Open accounts in over 20 destinations 
Open an account pre-departure, or once you arrive. Plus, for certain locations, you can do it all online. 
Wherever home is, your bank is too 
Manage your global accounts from one place online, and make transfers between them with no HSBC fees. 
Settle in with a local credit card 
You can apply for a credit card in your new destination. 
Value-added global services 
Wherever you are in the world, you can access seamless support and professional services that go beyond banking. 
Open an account 
Apply for a UK account 
We can help you open an account, whether you're in the UK or applying from elsewhere. 
Apply from outside the UK or eligible EU country 
Already in the UK or an eligible EU country? Explore our accounts 
Open an account outside the UK 
Looking to move, work or invest abroad? Find out how to apply for an account in another destination. 
How to apply 
Our international services 
Discover how we support you globally, from everyday global banking to expert local guidance. 
Send money outside the UK 
Send money from the UK to over 150 destinations worldwide, with live exchange rates during market opening hours. Fees may apply. 
Mortgages for non-UK residents 
Find out how to apply for a mortgage in the UK, even if you're not a resident. 
Using your card outside the UK 
Heading off on your travels? Find out all you need to know about using your HSBC cards while you're away. 
International benefits 
Explore our value-added services, from tax solutions and relocation support to special offers worldwide. 
Global View and Global Transfers 
View your global HSBC accounts and move money between them securely with no HSBC fees. 
HSBC Currency Account 
Store, send and receive money in 14 major currencies. 
Credit cards for international customers 
Settle in with a credit card in your new destination to help kickstart your life abroad. 
Travel money 
Going on holiday? Order your travel money online and get fee-free delivery to home or a selected HSBC Full and Cash service branch. 
Banking in the UK 
Check out our guides to living and studying in the UK to make settling in as smooth as possible. 
Living in the UK 
Explore our resources to support you as you start your new life in the UK. 
Studying in the UK 
Find out how you can make the most of studying abroad with HSBC. 
Indian Nationals in the UK 
A seamless way to manage your finances in India from the UK. 
HSBC Expat 
Our international account that helps make life easier for expats. 
International support 
Check out our guides on moving or travelling, and get tips on managing your money in the UK and overseas. 
Global directory 
Find out where you can bank internationally with us and how to get in touch. 
UK help 
Find the support you need for your UK accounts. 
Making the most of your international journey 
Check out our guides on moving or travelling, and get tips on managing your money in the UK and overseas. 
What is an IBAN, a BIC and a swift code? 
Find out why you need these codes for international payments and how to get them. 
Spending outside the UK 
Find out the benefits of using either your debit or credit card or travel money when you're outside the UK. 
Using your card outside the UK 
Learn about the fees and charges included when you use your debit or credit cards outside the UK. 
Sending money to the UK 
Got family or friends living in the UK? Discover the key things to know before you send money to the UK. 
Travel guide: Spain 
Check out our essential guide to Spain, whether you’re heading to Madrid or Mallorca. 
Sending money outside the UK: top tips 
See 4 key things to do before sending money outside the UK to make sure the process is as smooth as possible. 
Disclaimer 
Any international account is subject to qualifications, status and local country or region laws and regulations. 
Additional information\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/
########Top of main content 
Investing
Discover ways we could help you make your money work harder.
Investment goals 
Discover a smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the app. Investing carries risk – so you could get back less than you invest. 
Investment calculator 
Use our calculator to see how your investment could potentially grow over time and under different market conditions. 
New to investing? 
We're here to help you start investing from £50..
Remember, investing has its downs as well as ups – and you could get back less than you invest.
Find the right investment for you 
We'll help you potentially grow your money with our range of investment options, including funds and a stocks & shares ISA. 
Stocks & shares ISA 
Find out how to start investing with a tax-efficient stocks and shares ISA.
The value of tax benefits will depend on your circumstances and tax rules may change in the future.
Funds 
Choose from our range of sustainable and regular ready-made portfolios to start investing, or to build your investment portfolio. 
Understand more about investing 
Take a look at our latest guides to learn more about investing – from how to get started to the different ways to invest. 
Investing for beginners 
Learn the basics of investing to work out whether it could be right for you. 
How to set long-term financial goals 
Find out more about how setting long-term financial goals can help you succeed. 
Is investing worth the risk? 
Get to grips with risk and learn how it could impact your money. 
Understanding market volatility 
Discover the causes of market volatility and things you can do to help weather the storm. 
Saving for your children's future 
Different ways to save, which can help you give your child a head start in life. 
More ways to invest 
Looking for more choice? Take a look at how you can choose your own investments.
Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Online fund platform 
Research, buy, sell and switch investments online with our Global Investment Centre. 
Online share dealing account 
InvestDirect is our online share dealing account that puts you in control of your investments. 
Looking for some help? 
Get personalised advice, or learn how to manage your investments. 
Investment advice 
Tailor-made advice to help you make financial decisions. 
Manage your investments 
Already investing with HSBC? Learn how to buy, sell and switch your investments, plus get wealth insights. 
Explore more 
More jargon-free guides to help you make investment decisions. 
What is the FTSE 100? 
We look at the different ways you can invest in the index and some alternatives to consider. 
Inflation's eating your savings – what can you do about it? 
If you’re a diligent saver, you may feel you’re financially protected against an uncertain future. 
When is a good time to invest? 
Things to consider if you're thinking about investing in the stock market. 
What's a stocks & shares ISA? 
Understand how an investment ISA works and what to consider. 
Invest or repay your debts? 
Tips on what to do if you have spare money, such as whether to pay off your mortgage or invest. 
New ways to save for your future 
How to develop your savings habit and earn more from your money.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments
########Top of main content 
Invest in your future 
Wherever you are today, we could help you create a better tomorrow 
Better things to do than worry about your finances? 
At HSBC, we’re always looking for new ways to make banking easier, slicker – more relevant. When it comes to helping you to plan your future, we’re especially passionate.
The word ‘wealth’ means different things to different people. For some, it could be property. For others, it’s their family. For us, it means being able to make your money work harder and to protect what matters, so you can build a brighter future.
Whether you’ve been investing for a while or you’re wondering where to start, we can help you to take actions today that could make your future self proud. 
We can help you to
Invest your money
Find out how we can help you make your money work harder – from choosing your own investments to us taking care of things for you
Invest in an ISA
Browse a range of ways you can invest via a stocks & shares ISA – from getting advice to selecting your own funds or shares
Invest in yourself
Carve out a little time to build your financial knowledge and increase your confidence – it’s easier than you think
Remember, the value of investments and any income they generate can go down as well as up, meaning you may not get back what you invest. Investing should be seen as a medium-to-long-term commitment so you should aim to invest for at least 5 years.
Explore more
When is a good time to invest?
Your financial action plan 
Things to consider if you're thinking about investing in the stock market.
Investing for beginners
Beginner's guide to investing 
Demystifying investing to help you get started.
Saving vs investing
Savings vs investing 
Find out what the difference is between saving and investing, and which could be right for you.
Wealth Insights for the UK
wealth insights for the uk 
Get the HSBC view with exclusive analysis and insight.
Back to top Back to top Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/
########Top of main content 
Mortgages
In line with the government's Mortgage Charter, HSBC can now offer more options to help mortgage customers through the cost of living crisis. 
We've got everything you need to make finding a mortgage straightforward
Applying with us is easy 
Get started by finding out how much you could borrow. Or, if you're ready, find out how to apply. 
Get a Decision in Principle 
How much could you borrow? 
Manage your mortgage 
Got a mortgage with us already? Find out how to make changes, borrow more, move home or switch to another HSBC rate. 
Compare our rates 
Choose HSBC and you could find a lower interest rate that could make your monthly repayments less. 
Mortgages to suit you 
From remortgaging to getting your foot on the property ladder, take a look at our range of mortgages to find what could be right for you. 
First-time buyer mortgages 
Find out everything you need on the journey to owning your own home. 
Remortgage to HSBC 
If your mortgage is with another lender, easily move it to HSBC and you could get a better deal. 
Mortgages for moving home 
Move home and you could get a better deal with an HSBC mortgage. 
Buy-to-let mortgages 
Explore how our buy-to-let mortgages could make it easier to buy your rental property. 
Making the most of your mortgage 
Whether you're remortgaging or a first-time buyer, there's a lot to get your head around – from the different types of mortgages to finding out how much to borrow. Take a look at our articles to help you decide. 
The cost of living and your mortgage 
Find out how your mortgage may be affected by interest rates and ways you could reduce your monthly payments. 
10 Steps to buying your own home 
From saving for a deposit, to exchange and completion, we guide you through the process. 
What's remortgaging? 
Take a look at our video, with an introduction to remortgaging and how it works. 
Should you remortgage? 
Here are 5 common reasons to remortgage, to help you decide if it’s right for you. 
How to switch your mortgage rate 
Find out if switching rates with your current lender could help save you money. 
Tools to help you choose 
How much could you borrow? 
Use our quick calculator to find out how much you could borrow. 
Repayments calculator 
Work out how much your monthly repayments could be. 
Ready to apply? 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage. 
Apply for your mortgage 
First, you'll need a Decision in Principle (sometimes called an Agreement in Principle), then you can apply for your mortgage.1The small print 1 
Get a Decision in Principle Get a Decision in Principle for a mortgage 
Continue your application Continue your application for a mortgage 
Explore more 
How to make your home energy efficient 
Read our tips on how to help the planet while also lowering your bills and saving money. 
Can a low EPC rating affect your mortgage application? 
Find out why Energy Performance Certificate ratings are important when buying a home. 
What could climate change mean for your mortgage? 
Learn how risks like flooding and coastal erosion could affect your mortgage application. 
What are the different types of mortgages? 
Get to know some of the different types of mortgages and repayment options. 
Conveyancing and property searches 
Understand how conveyancing and property searches work in our helpful video. 
What's Stamp Duty? 
Watch our video to find out what Stamp Duty is and how much you may need to pay. 
A timeline to buying a home 
Discover how long each step of the home-buying process may take, so you can plan ahead. 
What's a Decision in Principle? 
Watch our video to understand when, and why, you may need a Decision in Principle. 
What are the Government's affordable housing schemes? 
Find out if you’re eligible for financial support, to help buy a place of your own. 
The small print 
Our mortgage awards: Moneyfacts,Moneyfacts, This link will open in a new window Mortgage Finance GazetteMortgage Finance Gazette This link will open in a new window, YourMortgageYourMortgage This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages
########Top of main content 
Managing your money while studying 
Heading off to university is an exciting time. Alongside studying and making friends comes the task of managing your money. See our guides on everything from getting ready for university, to budgeting and shopping tips. 
Preparing for university
University survival tips
Head off to uni feeling ready with these 10 helpful tips.
Student banking: what you need to know
Get your head around some of the key aspects of student banking.
What is student insurance?
Discover ways your family could protect your things while you’re at uni.
Budgeting at university 
Budgeting for student life
Find out how to create a budget specifically for you and ways to save money.
Making your money go further at uni
5 tips to help reduce your spending while you’re studying. 
How to save money at the supermarket
See the techniques that can help you save money on your food shop. 
Borrowing money as a student
Understanding your student overdraft
Get to grips with everything your student overdraft entails. 
Borrowing money as a student
See the different ways you can borrow money and what the pros and cons may be.
Should you get a student credit card?
Look at the reasons for using a credit card and also mistakes to avoid.
Ready to open a student bank account? 
A student bank account can help you manage your money while you’re studying. 
Find out more about opening an HSBC Student Bank Account and how it can help you stay on top your finances.
See our Student Bank Account 
Explore more 
What does the rising cost of living mean for students? 
Discover insights into how students have been affected by the rising cost of living, plus tips to help you manage your money and get support if you need it.
Build your financial fitness 
Our new financial fitness hub is the perfect place for guidance and tips on building your financial strength.
Student finances: 5 tips to stay in control 
Make the most of your time at uni by getting on top of your finances. Follow this guide for 5 tips on how you can effectively manage your money. 
How to build your credit score as a student 
Starting to build your credit score can help you in the future. See how to build your credit score while you’re studying. 
Do you need mobile phone insurance? 
We answer some of your common questions to help you decide.
Download the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app 
You can manage your money on the move with the HSBC UK Mobile Banking App.
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
Apple and the Apple logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of Google LLC.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/
########Top of main content 
Current accounts
Make managing your money easy with an HSBC current account. Apply for your account today and take full control of your finances.
Choose a current account that gives you more 
Apply for an HSBC Advance Account to access retail offers and a range of our savings accounts.
You'll need to qualify for an optional arranged overdraft of at least £1,000. Other eligibility criteria and T&Cs apply.
Explore HSBC Advance 
Find the right current account for you 
Not sure which account to choose? Compare our current accounts and find the one that suits you best. 
Compare current accounts 
Switching bank accounts is easy 
We make switching banks simple. Make the move from your old bank to HSBC in just a few easy steps. 
What kind of current account are you looking for? 
All accounts 
Make day-to-day banking a breeze with our everyday current accounts. 
Student and graduate accounts 
The smart way to manage your money, before and after you graduate. 
Young person's accounts 
Our MyMoney children's accounts make looking after money easy. 
Business accounts 
Find an account that works for you, whether you're a start-up, sole trader or SME. 
Before you get your current account 
Read our guides to make sure you've got your head around the finer details. 
What do you need to open a current account? 
Find out what documents you'll need to make sure your application goes smoothly. 
How to open a joint account 
Opening a joint account is easy with HSBC – see what you need to do. 
Banking terms you need to know 
From standing order to IBAN, get to grips with a few banking terms worth knowing. 
Choosing a bank account 
Need a new bank account? Explore the different types and what they include. 
Overdrafts explained 
Find out how overdrafts work, how you can use them, and things to watch out for. 
Our most popular bank accounts 
Advance Bank Account 
Easy everyday banking, with access to retail offers and our Regular Saver Account, and no monthly account fee.
You'll need to qualify for an optional arranged overdraft of at least £1,000. Other eligibility criteria and T&Cs apply.
Premier Bank Account 
Our premium bank account, with no monthly account fee and access to exclusive rates on savings and borrowing.
You must have an income of £75,000+ and another eligible HSBC product; or have £50,000 in savings or investments with us; or hold and qualify for HSBC Premier in another country or region. Other eligibility criteria and T&Cs apply.
Bank Account 
A straightforward current account, with everything you need to stay on top of your money. 
Student Bank Account 
A current account designed to help you make the most of student life. 
Banking at your fingertips 
Take a look at our app 
Managing your money is easy and secure with our Mobile Banking app. Device restrictions apply. 
More about mobile banking 
Make the most of your current account 
Find out how you can use your account to stay on top of your money. 
What is an account number and sort code? 
Whether you're receiving payments or making them, understanding your account number and sort code can make money transfers easier. 
What is a bank transfer? 
If you need to move money electronically, a bank transfer allows you to send money both locally and internationally. 
What is a standing order? 
Making regular fixed payments to another account? A standing order can help you streamline the process. 
What is a Direct Debit? 
If you have multiple bills or subscriptions, approving automatic withdrawals can save you time and simplify payments. 
What is Faster Payments? 
Need to quickly transfer money between two UK accounts? Learn how a real-time payments system helps you do this. 
What to do if you make an online transfer mistake? 
One of the best things you can do is act quickly to get things sorted. Find out how.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/
########Top of main content 
Credit cards
Manage your cash flow and make purchases you’ll pay off later. Find out more about our credit cards and the guidance we offer
Find the right card for you 
Take a look at our range of credit cards, consider their benefits and find the one that will suit you best. 
Compare cards 
New to the UK? Access your international credit history 
Your credit history doesn't need to stay behind when you move to a new country. We can help you to use it in your new home. 
What kind of credit card are you looking for? 
Balance transfer credit cards 
Give yourself some breathing room with our balance transfer options. 
Purchase credit cards 
Buy now and spread the cost of all your purchases - large or small. 
Credit-builder credit cards 
Help build your credit score when you spend and make on-time repayments. 
Rewards credit cards 
Discover our range of rewards cards. 
Making the most of a credit card 
How to improve your credit score 
Understand the steps you can take now to build your credit score - so that it can start working for you. 
What is a 0% interest card? 
Understand the different kinds of 0% credit card offers and work out which cards could suit you. 
How to use a balance transfer credit card 
5 tips to help you make the most of a balance transfer credit card and pay off what you owe. 
Types of credit cards 
Get to know the differences between the main types of credit cards and how they could match your needs. 
How do credit cards work? 
Get to know the basics about credit cards - from seeing how interest works, to what you'll need to apply. 
Our most popular cards 
Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Enjoy up to 24 months interest-free for balance transfers (3.49% fee, min £5).
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Discover the all-rounder that has up to 18 months of interest-free purchases and up to 16 months of interest-free balance transfers (3.49% fee, minimum £5).
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Rewards Credit Card 
Earn reward points on eligible purchases you make.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Classic Credit Card 
Improve or start building your credit rating.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 29.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 29.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,000
View all cards 
More card information 
Second credit cards 
Find out how having a second HSBC card could help you manage your different spending needs. 
Get the most from your credit card 
Manage all your card needs online or via the app. 
Credit card fees and rates 
Understand more about fees and the interest rates for your HSBC credit card. 
Explore more 
How to avoid credit card charges 
Get to know the different types of credit card charges and how you can reduce the amount you pay. 
How to check your credit report 
Find out how to check there are no mistakes on your credit file before you apply for a credit card. 
What is APR? 
Find out more about APR, and see how it can help you compare the credit cards you're interested in. 
What is a credit limit? 
Find out how banks calculate credit limits and whether you can change them. 
Credit card rewards explained 
Get to know what a reward credit card can offer you, and how much it could cost you to use one. 
What is a credit score? 
Understand what goes into a credit score, and why your score matters when you apply for a credit card.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/
########Top of main content 
Savings accounts
Whether you're saving for a new home, a new car or a big adventure, our savings accounts could help you get there. Open an account today.
Online Bonus Saver 
Get a higher interest rate in any months you don't make a withdrawal. For existing HSBC customers only. You can only open this account online.
Key Information
Bonus rate up to £50,000: 4.00% AER / 3.93% gross
Bonus rate over £50,000: 2.30% AER / 2.28% gross
Standard rate: 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross
Instant Access: Yes
Interest is paid monthly and the rate is variable
Fixed Rate Savings Account 
Save for 1 or 2 years. For current account and savings account customers only (not including Basic Bank Account, Loyalty Cash ISA or Regular Saver).
Key information
1-year term: 4.30% AER/gross
2-year term: 4.00% AER/gross
Instant access: No
Interest is paid monthly or yearly and the rate is fixed.
What kind of savings account are you looking for? 
Easy access savings 
Earn interest on your savings and enjoy instant access to your money. 
Fixed Rate Savings Account 
Lock your money away for a little while and enjoy a guaranteed rate for the entire term. 
ISAs 
Save up to £20,000 in the current tax year with our cash or stocks and shares ISAs.1Footnote link 1 
Children's Savings Account 
If you're aged 7 to 17, start putting some money aside with a children's savings account. 
View all savings accounts 
Making the most of your savings account 
ISAs vs savings 
What's the best way for you to save? Explore the options and decide for yourself. 
What is an ISA? 
Learn about the different types of ISAs and how they work. 
Types of savings account 
From fixed rate to instant access, find out about the different ways to save. 
How safe is my money? 
When times are tough, knowing your money's safe can be reassuring. 
How to save for a home deposit 
Want to get on the property ladder? Follow our 5 tips to help you on your way. 
Useful resources 
Savings comparison tool 
Compare our range of savings accounts to find the right one for you. 
View our interest rates 
Compare interest rates across all our savings accounts. 
Savings goal calculator 
See how long it might take you to save for whatever you have in mind. 
More savings account articles 
How to top up an ISA 
Make the most of your tax-free allowance by paying more into your ISA. 
How to save money 
Follow our 5 simple steps to help you save money more easily. 
What is the Personal Savings Allowance? 
Find out how you can earn tax-free interest thanks to this handy personal allowance. 
Fixed vs variable rate savings 
Choosing the right account for your savings can make your money work harder. 
Money-saving tips for couples 
Saving together can be faster, but you may want to set a few ground rules. 
What is compound interest? 
Compound interest can turbo charge your savings over time. Find out how it works. 
Additional information 
AER stands for annual equivalent rate. This shows you what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and compounded once each year.
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted.
Tax-free means you don't have to pay UK income tax or capital gains tax on any interest or returns you earn.
The value of any tax benefits described depends upon your individual circumstances. Tax rules may change in future.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/
########Top of main content 
Loans
Whether you want a bank loan to buy a car, improve your home or consolidate your existing debts, compare our loans to find the one that’s perfect for your plans
Personal Loan 
Borrow from £1,000 to £25,000 with a personal loan and make your goals a reality.
Key information 
6.9% APR representative available for loans between £7,000 and £15,000
Car Loan 
Get a loan for a new or used car that you pay back at the speed you want. 
Premier Personal Loan 
Borrow up to £50,000 with a personal loan for Premier customers.

Key information 
6.4% APR representative available for loans between £10,000 and £30,000
What are you looking to use your loan for? 
Want to borrow more? 
If you already have an HSBC loan you can either take out an additional loan or top up your existing loan. 
Home Improvement Loan 
Make your dream home a reality with a home improvement loan. 
Debt Consolidation Loan 
Help make your debts easier to manage with a single monthly repayment plan. 
Wedding Loan 
Spread the cost of your special day. 
Making the most of your loan 
Read our helpful guides about how loans work, and what you could use them for. 
How to manage your loan repayments 
Discover 6 steps to make managing your loan repayments simpler. 
Tips to successfully apply for a loan 
Get tips on how to apply for a loan to give yourself the best chance of getting approved. 
What to check before applying for a loan 
From loan repayments to fees, find out what you need to consider before you apply. 
What are some of the different types of loans? 
Get to know the different types of loans, what they’re used for and things to consider. 
What is debt consolidation? 
Discover how a debt consolidation loan can make your debts easier to manage. 
Work out the total cost of a loan 
Personal Loan calculator 
Find out your estimated representative interest rates and monthly repayments without impacting your credit score. 
Explore more 
Home improvement loans explained 
Find out how home improvement loans work, what to consider and how to apply. 
How do personal loans work? 
Get to know how personal loans work to help you avoid unexpected costs down the line. 
What is a personal loan? 
From choosing a personal loan to deciding how much to borrow, get started with our quick guide. 
How to finance a car 
From a personal loan to leasing and PCP, understand the different ways you can finance a car. 
What is a loan? 
Read our guide to help you understand what a loan can be used for, things to consider and how to apply. 
The pros and cons of home renovations 
Take a look at the pros and cons of renovating, to help you decide if it's worth it.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/
########Top of main content 
Insurance
Be sure the people you love, and the things you care about are taken care of with HSBC Insurance.
What are you looking to insure? 
Find the cover you need, from home insurance to life insurance. 
Home insurance 
Choose the level of cover that’s right for your home. 
Life insurance 
Protect you and your loved ones with a life cover policy. 
Explore all insurance options 
Make the most of your insurance cover 
From home insurance to life insurance – we've got the latest guides to help you choose. 
What is critical illness insurance? 
Find out how critical illness insurance means you know you'll be covered in the event of a diagnosis. 
Do you need life insurance? 
Understand when you may or may not need life cover, to decide when it could be right for you. 
What insurance do you need with your mortgage? 
If your mortgage application is approved, it's now time to think about what home insurance you might need. 
What to consider when buying insurance 
Make sure you know what to cover and check you're not paying for insurance you don't need. 
What are the different types of insurance? 
Explore the most common types of insurance to see which ones you might need. 
Looking for some help? 
I've you've already got insurance with us, find out all you need to make a claim. 
Manage your insurance 
Already have insurance with HSBC? Find out how to make a claim or make changes to your policy. 
Coronavirus travel guidance 
We’ve put together some frequently asked questions about how Covid-19 could affect your travel plans. 
Insurance Aspects 
If you're an HSBC Advance customer, find out what's covered or how to make a claim with your HSBC Insurance Aspects policy. 
Premier Travel Insurance 
If you’re a Premier customer, find out how to make a claim or learn more about your travel cover. 
Select and Cover 
If you already have Select and Cover with us, find out how you can manage your policy or make a claim. 
Explore more 
More straightforward guides to help you choose the right insurance cover. 
Should you cancel your insurance to save money? 
Before you decide to cancel an insurance policy, take a look at a few things that are worth considering. 
How to make an insurance claim 
Read our useful checklist to help making a claim as smooth as possible. 
How to save money on your home insurance 
From paying annually to increasing your excess, here are some things you can do to save money. 
How much home insurance do you need? 
See what's covered by different policies and work out what you may need. 
What is home emergency cover? 
Find out what's covered, from an emergency call-out for a wasp nest to a broken boiler. 
Should you get single or joint life insurance? 
Read our simple guide to help you decide whether single or joint life insurance would be better for you.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/
########Top of main content 
Wealth Insights
Read our latest insights curated to meet your investment and wealth needs, ranging from our house view, FX trends, global and regional market outlook, to sustainability insights, thought leadership articles and financial education.
Capture market moves and our latest views 
Investment Monthly: Short-term rate volatility offers buying opportunities in quality bonds 
As market expectations of a March Fed rate cut are too premature, we believe it will need...[1 Feb] 
Investment Daily: US stocks and Treasuries rose after PCE inflation data 
US stocks and Treasuries rose after PCE data. [1 Mar] 
Special Coverage: Fed begins to pivot to discuss rate cuts 
As expected, the Fed left rates unchanged at 5.25-5.5% for a fourth straight meeting.The...[2 Feb] 
Think Future 2024: Your guide to the global investment landscape 
As we look ahead to 2024, we see two positive drivers on the horizon. The number one challenge of rate hikes in major...[22 Nov] 
Learn to invest 
[Meet life goals] Family First 
Family life is undergoing unprecedented transformations. From social and economic shifts...[29 Feb] 
[Start investing] Three reasons to put cash to work today 
Cash underperformed the broad markets in 2023. Historically, multi-asset portfolios...[29 Jan] 
[Meet life goals] Retirement Reinvented: Unlocking Success in Act Two 
Plan for a secure future: Consider financial security, protecting your health, and paying off mortgages...[18 Sep] 
[Meet life goals] Retirement: Paving your way to Quality of Life 
Quality of Life goes beyond meeting material needs. It encompasses multiple dimensions such as physical...[4 Sep] 
[Start investing] Behavioural Finance: How not to be your own biggest enemy! 
Despite being one of the smartest species on the planet, human beings aren’t always rational with their...[16 Jul] 
Explore regional opportunities 
Macro Monthly: Rate cuts and elections in focus 
As we start a new year, it looks set to be characterised by rate cuts and elections…[11 Jan] 
UK in Focus: Economy perking up? 
While UK GDP growth has been revised down for Q3 2023, from 0.0% q-o-q to -0.1%, opening...[2 Jan] 
Macro Monthly: Reasons for optimism 
Growth has proved resilient, and inflation has dropped…[8 Dec] 
UK in Focus: UK Autumn Statement: Spent 
The UK Chancellor was able to announce lower borrowing,more headroom against targets, and...[8 Dec] 
Keep up with ESG and new trends 
Why ESG Matters: COP28: Slow progress 
The transition away from fossil fuels was mentioned for the first time in a climate...[9 Jan] 
Learning about ESG: Progressing ESG adoption in Asia 
The scarcity of ESG investment products and fragmented data across the region have... [7 Dec] 
Learning about ESG : Why batteries are key to the green transformation 
Recent US and EU policy initiatives highlight the importance of battery technology... [10 Oct] 
Why ESG Matters: How sustainable is your morning coffee? 
Climate change poses a significant threat to coffee production as suitable land for...[6 Oct] 
Why ESG Matters: Ice cream: Deliciously sustainable? 
Ice cream is an increasingly popular treat around the world, but investors should...[4 Aug] 
Stay on top of the FX market 
FX Viewpoint: EUR and GBP: Modest downside ahead 
The ECB and BoE are likely to pivot more explicitly towards policy easing in the months...[26 Feb] 
FX Viewpoint: The Fed, ECB, and BoE: Rate cuts on the horizon… 
The Fed, ECB, and BoE started 2024 by keeping interest rates unchanged, but set the stage...[5 Feb] 
FX Viewpoint Flash: USD: Fed Chair Powell talks down the prospect of a March cut 
The FOMC held rates steady for a fourth straight meeting, as widely expected, showing that...[2 Feb] 
FX Trends: Markets to realise a shallower easing path 
Market thoughts of a shallower global easing cycle should support the ‘safe-haven’ USD…[19 Jan] 
More articles 
[Start investing] Why choose global investment grade corporate bonds over cash or short-term investment? 
Following successive rate hikes by major central banks during 2022 and H1 2023, deposit rates in many...[30 Jun] 
Investment Weekly: Bonds are back (in emerging markets) 
Since mid-January, markets have scaled back expectations for Western central bank policy...[26 Feb] 
[Start investing] What is an index fund 
Index funds offer investors a simple, low cost way to invest in a range of assets...[16 Aug] 
[Meet life goals] Leaving a legacy 
Legacy goals can vary widely and may be financially and non-financially focused. [5 May] 
[Start investing] Quality bonds as a diversifier amid market downturn 
Some people find bonds ‘boring’ because you don’t often hear much about them in the news...[25 Nov] 
[Meet life goals] The importance of retirement planning for women 
Among the retired women involved in a survey carried out by YouGov for HSBC1, over 90%...[20 Apr]\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/
########Top of main content 
Manage your investments 
Already investing with HSBC? Learn how to buy, sell and switch your investments, plus get wealth insights. 
Buy, sell or switch your investments 
If you're already investing with us, we've got all the information you'll need to make your investment choices.
We also offer a hub of analysis and wealth insights to keep you up to date with the latest investment news.
Remember, investing has its downs as well as ups – so you could get back less than you invest.
Investment goals 
Discover a smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the app. Investing carries risk – so you could get back less than you invest. 
Explore investment goals 
Eligibility criteria and fees apply. 
How to manage your investments 
Read our useful guides about the different ways you can set up and manage your investments.
Guide to investment goals
Find out how to set up and manage your investment goals in the app.
How to use our Global Investment Centre
Your step-by-step guide to buying, selling and switching funds online.
Using your online sharedealing account
Learn how to buy and sell shares and manage your investments with your InvestDirect account.
Child Trust Fund
Guide for customers with an existing Child Trust Fund account.
Onshore Investment Bond
Read our brochure to help you manage your HSBC Onshore Investment Bond.
Useful resources for investors	
Fund directory
A list of fund managers, their value assessments and the funds available through the Global Investment Centre.
Specialist investment support
We'll help you spot if you need any specialist support before making an investment decision. 
Responsible investing
This link will open in a new window 
Policies and disclosures that show how we're supporting the move to a sustainable future.
Any other questions? 
If you need help, our specialist teams are here to support you.
For questions about buying and selling funds via our online fund platform, Global Investment Centre, call us:
03456 076 180
Lines are open from 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
For questions about share dealing via InvestDirect, call us on:
03456 080 848
Lines are open from 07:30 to 19:00 Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays.
Frequently asked questions 
Should I sell my investments? 
There are a few things to consider before you decide to sell your investments.
It’s normal for stock markets to react to fast-moving events. Staying focused on your long-term plans can help you avoid panic selling.
For example, if you consider selling when markets are low, that could mean you miss out on the market recovery that can often follow.
If you’ve chosen your own investments, you may be able to make some changes to your portfolio to make it more resilient.
If you’re still considering selling and your investments are held in a stocks & shares ISA, you could keep the cash sale proceeds in your un-invested cash account until you’re ready to invest again. This means the money would still retain the tax advantages associated with holding it in an ISA. But, your investment will also be out of the market and therefore won't benefit from any positive change in the market.
Take a look at our Wealth Insights for our exclusive investment analysis.
Can I get investment advice? 
If you've got an HSBC current or savings account with £100,000 or more and you've got broad financial needs, we offer a dedicated financial advice service. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Please note, we no longer offer online investment advice.
How do I get a certificate of interest? 
A certification of interest - or tax certificate - confirms the total amount of credit interest paid into an account over the tax year.
If you need one to complete your tax self-assessment, send us a secure e-message through online banking or by using chat in the mobile banking app.
Once we receive your request, we’ll post this to you within 7 working days.
You might also be interested in 
Wealth Insights
Get the HSBC view with exclusive analysis and insight.
Investment essentials
Browse our latest daily and weekly articles on global investment topics.
ESG insights
Get the latest on environmental issues and sustainable investing.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/existing-customers/
########Top of main content 
Guide to investment goals 
We'll explain how to create, track and manage your investment goals in the app. 
Everything you need to know about investment goals in the app 
From creating a goal to tracking and managing your investment pots – we've got you covered.
Keep in mind that creating an investment goal will help you decide how much to invest, but the value of your investments will go up and down, so you could get back less than you invest. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Go straight to: 
How to create an investment goal
How to start investing towards your goal
How to manage your investment goals
	How to create an investment goal		
It’s easy to set up your first investment goal if you've got a long-term goal in mind – something to aim for in at least 5 years.
Just open your app and we'll guide you through the steps. Don't have the app? Download it now.
1. Go to your 'Plan' tab 
Select the ‘Plan’ tab at the bottom of your home screen. Then choose ‘Investment goals’ > ‘Set up goal’. 
2. Choose your goal's category 
Once you've got a long-term goal in mind, let us know by choosing the category and naming it. 
3. Set targets for your goal 
Decide how much money you’d need to reach your goal and when you’d like to achieve it by – at least 5 years. 
4. Let us work it out 
Set an initial deposit or regular contributions from £1. We’ll work out how much you'd likely need to invest each month to reach it. 
Who can set up an investment goal? 
To set up an investment goal, you'll need to:
be registered for and have the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app
have an HSBC current account or savings account (excluding the Online Bonus Saver and Fixed-rate Saver)
be a UK resident with a permanent UK residential address
be at least 18 years old
not be a US national/citizen/resident (eg a US passport holder)
Before you start investing
Make sure you've got an emergency fund to fall back on – ideally 3-6 months of expenses. This way you could be less likely to dip into your investment to cover any unexpected costs.
You should also aim to invest for at least 5 years. But, your money isn't locked away if you change your mind – you can sell your investments and access your money within 4 business days.
Are there any fees to set up an investment goal? 
There are no fees to set up an investment goal or to open a Global Investment Centre (GIC) account.
If you decide to invest, there's an annual account fee of 0.25% of whatever you invest. It's calculated using the average daily value of the assets within your account in the previous quarter and it's payable quarterly.
Fund managers also apply an annual management charge and there are other expenses which are deducted directly from the fund.
Before buying any fund, you’ll see a breakdown of all of the charges in the relevant Costs and Charges PDF.
How to start investing towards your goal 
Once you’ve created a goal, you’ll know how much you'd likely need to invest each month to reach it.
If you're ready to invest, we'll guide you through the app.
What happens next? 
After setting up your goal, we'll open you an HSBC Global Investment Centre (GIC) account to hold your investments in – if you don’t already have one, and an uninvested cash account.
Not yet ready to start investing? 
Your goal will be saved until you’re ready. You can access it any time from the ‘Plan’ tab > ‘Investment goals’ > 'View all'.
Questions about investing towards a goal 
How much can I start investing with? 
You can start investing by setting up an investment goal in the app from just £1. You can make an initial deposit or set up regular contributions.
For all other ways to invest with HSBC, the minimum amount to start is £50 as a lump sum or regular contributions.
Find out how much you can withdraw from your investment pot.
Can I use my ISA for my investment pot? 
Yes if you already have one, you can use your Global Investment Centre (GIC) Stocks & shares ISA to set up an investment pot.
If you've not subscribed into your ISA in the previous tax year it will be inactive. Read our guide to find out how to reactivate your ISA.
Which account will hold my investment pot? 
A Global Investment Centre (GIC) account will hold your investment pot. We'll open a GIC account for you after you set up your goal – if you don’t already have one. We'll also open you an uninvested cash account.
If you have a GIC account already, your investment pot will be held alongside any other investments you may have.
Find out what's an uninvested cash account
What's an uninvested cash account and how does it work? 
An uninvested cash account (UCA) is a deposit account linked to your Stocks & Shares ISA or General Investment Account (GIA).
Before you invest
You can move cash into your UCA and leave it there until you’re ready to invest, but there's no interest paid on any money in this account.
When you invest
If you buy a fund, the cash sits in your UCA while we process the trade. It takes up to 4 business days to complete the purchase.
When you withdraw
When you sell funds, the cash will be paid into your UCA within 4 business days. The cash will then remain in your UCA until you choose to invest in a new fund, or you can select ‘Pay & Transfer’ to transfer it to one of your HSBC current or savings accounts.
	How to manage your investment goals		
We'll explain how to track, increase or change your goal at any time in the app.
Track your goal 
To increase your investment select 'Buy, or to withdraw money select 'Sell'. You can also choose to set up, amend or cancel your regular contribution. 
Add another goal 
Select 'Add new goal' to create up to 4 investment goals. Then, you can see them all in one place to help you keep track. 
Edit your goal 
Select the ‘Plan’ tab > ‘Investment goals’ > 'View all' and choose the goal you'd like to edit.
Then, select the 3 dots at the top right of your screen to change the name, category or targets.
Questions about managing your goals 
Why c\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/existing-customers/goal-based-investing/
########Top of main content 
How to use our Global Investment Centre 
Your step-by-step guide to buying, selling and switching funds online 
Find out how to use our online fund platform – the Global Investment Centre (GIC). 
Track your investments on the go 
You can now track the performance of your investments straight through the app. Just select your 'GIC investment account' to see what's new.
Don't yet have the app? Download it now.
Download the app 
Device restrictions, eligibility and fees apply.	
Using our Global Investment Centre on mobile 
Go straight to:
What you can manage with the app vs online banking
How to access your GIC account on your mobile
How to open a new GIA or ISA through the app
Using our Global Investment Centre with online banking 
Go straight to:
How to access your GIC account with online banking
How to research funds
How to buy a fund
How to set up a regular savings plan
How to change or cancel a regular savings plan
How to switch funds
How to sell funds
How to check your account fees
How to use your uninvested cash account
How to open a new GIA or ISA with online banking
How to reactivate an ISA
How to transfer an ISA to your account
How to move funds from your GIA to your ISA
Other questions 
Any other questions?
Remember, when you manage your investments online, you’ll be making your own decisions without advice. Find out more about our investment advice.
How to use our Global Investment Centre on mobile 
What you can manage with the app vs online banking 
For anything that you can't do in the app at the moment, you'll need to log on to your online banking. 
What would you like to do? Mobile app Online banking 
Invest in a fund	Yes, but only for HSBC Global Strategy Portfolios and HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios.	Yes	
Create an investment goal	Yes 	No 	
Track your investments	Yes	Yes	
Set up regular payments	Yes, but only for HSBC Global Strategy Portfolios and HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios.	Yes	
Manage regular payments	Yes	Yes	
Switch funds	No	Yes	
Sell funds	Yes, but only for HSBC Global Strategy Portfolios and HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios.	Yes	
Transfer an ISA	No	Yes	
Reactivate an ISA	No	Yes	
For anything that you can't do in the app at the moment, you'll need to log on to your online banking. 
What would you like to do? Invest in a fund	
Mobile app Yes, but only for HSBC Global Strategy Portfolios and HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios.	
Online banking Yes	
	
What would you like to do? Create an investment goal	
Mobile app Yes 	
Online banking No 	
	
What would you like to do? Track your investments	
Mobile app Yes	
Online banking Yes	
	
What would you like to do? Set up regular payments	
Mobile app Yes, but only for HSBC Global Strategy Portfolios and HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios.	
Online banking Yes	
	
What would you like to do? Manage regular payments	
Mobile app Yes	
Online banking Yes	
	
What would you like to do? Switch funds	
Mobile app No	
Online banking Yes	
	
What would you like to do? Sell funds	
Mobile app Yes, but only for HSBC Global Strategy Portfolios and HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios.	
Online banking Yes	
	
What would you like to do? Transfer an ISA	
Mobile app No	
Online banking Yes	
	
What would you like to do? Reactivate an ISA	
Mobile app No	
Online banking Yes	
How to access your GIC account on your mobile 
Log on to your HSBC UK Mobile Banking app as normal
Select your 'GIC Investment account' from your list of accounts on your home screen
Once selected, you can track the performance of your investments straight through the app
How to open a new GIA or ISA through the app 
If you already have a General Investment Account (GIA) and want to open an ISA, or you have an ISA and want to open a GIA, here's how to do so through the app:
Log on to your HSBC UK Mobile Banking app as normal
Select your 'GIC Investment account' from your list of accounts
From 'Your investment dashboard', scroll down to select 'Invest in more funds'
You can then choose a portfolio and we'll ask you whether you'd like to invest in your existing account or open a new GIA or ISA.
Find out how to open a new GIA or ISA with online banking
How to use our Global Investment Centre with online banking 
How to access your GIC account with online banking 
Log on to your online banking as normal
Find 'GIC Investments' in your list of accounts
Select 'Investment dashboard' to access your full account
How to research funds 
Once you've logged on to the GIC, you can start researching our full range of funds. To do this:
Select 'Investing’ > 'Discover funds’
To find a specific fund you can either:
Type in a keyword, the fund name or the Stock Exchange Daily Official List code (SEDOL) in the quick search box, or
Pick an option to refine your search
You can also search and compare the information and performance of up to 5 funds.
How to buy a fund 
When you’re ready to invest, whether that's for the first time or to top-up an existing investment fund, here’s how:
1. Decide if you'd like to invest a new fund, or top-up an existing fund
Invest in a new fund 
Select 'Investing' > 'Discover Funds'
Then, search to find the fund you’re interested in, select it and you’ll be taken to the 'Fund details'
Top-up an existing fund 
Select 'Account summary' > 'Your holdings'
Find the fund you want to invest in
Select 'Trade' and this will take you to the 'Fund details'
2. Review fund details
You can review the fund details and find all the documents you might want to read before buying the fund.
When you're ready, select 'Buy' and you'll continue to 'Buy order details'.
3. Place a fund order
To buy a fund, you'll need to enter your:
Order instruction – this will be selected as 'Buy'
Chosen investment account – this is usually either your 'Stocks & shares ISA' or your 'General Investment Account'
Payment account – select which HSBC current or savings account you’d like to make the payment from. Or, if you have money av\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/existing-customers/global-investment-centre/
########Top of main content 
How to use InvestDirect 
Your helpful guide to buying and selling shares online with HSBC 
Temporary changes to our sharedealing service
Here’s a list of the affected services, and what this means for you:
Fixed price quotes. If you’re shown a ‘fixed price quote’ when placing a buy or sell order, please check your order status after submitting. If there is volatility in the market, the fixed price quote may be rejected, in which case you’ll need to place a new order. 
Raise and invest. You’re currently unable to specify a £ or $ amount that you’d like to trade. Instead, you have to select the number of shares you want to purchase or sell.
28-day limit orders. We’re temporarily suspending the ability to place extended limit orders over the phone. You can still place limit orders online, where you can instruct us to buy or sell at a fixed price or better within one business day. 
InvestDirect is our online sharedealing service. You can view your account balances, access market data, and buy and sell shares.
When you use our online sharedealing service you’ll be making your own decisions without advice. If you need advice, visit our advice options page to see what services we offer. 
Remember that the value of investments, and any income they generate, can fall as well as rise. So you could get back less than you invest. You can access your money at any time, although investing should be regarded as a longer-term strategy of at least 5 years.
Jump to:
How to access your account
How to fund your account
How to buy shares with InvestDirect
How to buy shares with InvestDirect Plus
How to sell shares
How to open a new InvestDirect ISA
How to fund your InvestDirect ISA from your investment account (‘Bed and ISA’)
How to reactivate an InvestDirect ISA
How to transfer in ISAs you hold elsewhere
Any questions?
How to access your account 
Before you can start buying or selling shares, you’ll need to log on to your sharedealing account and view your portfolio page.
Log on to online banking as normal.
Find your InvestDirect or InvestDirect Plus account in your list of accounts.
Select your account to open it in a separate window.
Select ‘My Portfolio’ to access your full sharedealing account.
If you receive an error message or a blank page when trying to access your account, it could be a browser issue. Clear your cookies, empty your cache, and delete your browsing history then try again. If you still can’t access your account, please contact uscontact us anchors to the phone number.
How to fund your account 
If you hold an InvestDirect account, it’s linked to your nominated HSBC UK bank account. This means when you buy or sell shares the money will automatically debit or credit your bank account on settlement date.
If you hold an InvestDirect Plus account, it will include a separate cash account that you will need to fund using your HSBC UK bank account before you can make a trade. 
Log on to your InvestDirect Plus Portfolio then click on ‘cash account’ to locate the sort code and account number for your InvestDirect Plus cash account. 
Using online banking, select My Accounts > Move Money to set up your cash account as a new payee.
Move money from current account to your InvestDirect Plus cash account. Payments will usually credit the same day.
How to buy shares with InvestDirect 
If you selected to trade in UK equities only when you opened your account, you’ll have an InvestDirect account.
Select ‘Buy’ on the red toolbar.
Select the ‘Trade from account’ dropdown box near the top of the page and select your nominated HSBC current account.
Enter the name or the code of the shares you want to buy and select ‘Get price’.
Enter the number of shares you want to buy in the quantity box.
If you’re buying shares within a stocks and shares ISA, you’ll need to enter a limit price. This limits the price you’re willing to pay so you don’t oversubscribe to your ISA. You’ll need to enter this in pence (for example ‘£1.00’ would be written as ‘100’).
Select ‘Preview order’ to check whether you’re happy with the price. This price is only available for 15 seconds.
You can accept it by choosing ‘Place order’. If you change your mind, select ‘Cancel’ or ‘Amend’ to return to the previous screen.
You can view your order confirmation in ‘Messages’. This is on the left-hand side menu on your portfolio page. You should receive a confirmation within 24 hours.
How to buy shares with InvestDirect Plus 
If you selected to trade in UK and US equities when you opened your account, you’ll have an InvestDirect Plus account.
First, transfer money to pay for the shares into the relevant cash account by following the steps listed above in ‘How to fund your account’.
Select ‘Buy’ on the red toolbar to buy UK shares. If you want to buy US shares, select ‘US Shares’ on the left-hand side menu.
Select the ‘Trade from account’ dropdown box near the top of the page then select the relevant currency’s cash account.
Enter the name or the code of the shares you want to buy and select ‘Get price’.
Enter the number of shares you want to buy in the quantity box.
If you’re buying shares within a stocks and shares ISA, you’ll need to enter a limit price. This limits the price you’re willing to pay to make sure you don’t oversubscribe to your ISA. You’ll need to enter this in pence / cents / euros (for example ‘£1.00’ would be written as ‘100’).
Select ‘Preview order’ to check whether you’re happy with the price. This price is only available for 15 seconds.
You can accept it by selecting ‘Place order’. If you change your mind, select ‘Cancel’ or ‘Amend’ to return to the previous screen.
You can view your order confirmation in ‘Messages’ on the left-hand side menu on your portfolio page. You should receive the confirmation within 24 hours.
How to sell shares 
Once you’ve bought shares, you’re in control of which shares you want to sell and when.
Select the ‘Sell’ button on the red toolbar. 
Select the ‘Select investment account’\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/existing-customers/invest-direct/
########Top of main content 
Child Trust Fund 
Guide for customers with an existing Child Trust Fund account. 
A Child Trust Fund is a government scheme that provides a way to invest for children born on or between 1 September 2002 and 2 January 2011. The scheme is now closed to new applicants.
If you already have a Child Trust Fund with HSBC, you can add up to £9,000 a year until your child turns 18. And if you hold a Child Trust Fund with another provider, you may wish to transfer it to HSBC.
What happens when the fund matures? 
When the child turns 18, they'll need to tell us what they want to do with their investments.
For the parent or registered contact
Here’s an overview of what to expect and what you can do as their fund approaches maturity.
Approaching 18?
What happens to the fund when you turn 18 is up to you. Discover your options and some information to help you decide.
Information about your HSBC Child Trust Fund 
Are your details up to date?
Paying money into the HSBC Child Trust Fund
Changing the registered contact
Transferring a Child Trust Fund to HSBC
What else do you need to know?
Do you need financial advice?
Important information and useful forms
Are your details up to date? 
The address details we hold for your child can be found on your latest HSBC Child Trust Fund Annual Statement (bottom of page 2). If either your or your child’s details have changed, you can let us know by calling 0345 606 6241. If you have a speech or hearing impediment, please call 03457 660 391. Lines are open from 08:00 to 18:00 on Mondays to Fridays, excluding bank holidays.
Paying money into the HSBC Child Trust Fund 
If you have a Child Trust Fund with HSBC, you can invest up to £9,000 each birthday year – either as a lump sum or in regular payments. The minimum investment for lump sums is £10. There’s no minimum investment for regular payments.
Relatives and friends can also pay money into the Child Trust Fund if they want to – you just need to give them the account details. For more on payment methods, please read the ‘Child Trust Fund key features’‘Child Trust Fund key features’ This link will open in a new window document.
To set up or increase Direct Debit payments to the account, please print the ‘Child Trust Fund Direct Debit’‘Child Trust Fund Direct Debit’ This link will open in a new window form – or call us and we’ll send you a copy. Before completing the form, make sure you read the ‘Key investor information’ document so you understand the nature of the investment and the risk involved.
Remember that a Child Trust Fund is an investment and that all investments carry some risk. The value of investments can fall as well as rise and you may not get back the amount you invest.
Changing the registered contact 
To change the registered contact, please download, print and complete our ‘Change of registered contact’‘Change of registered contact’ This link will open in a new window form. Or call us and we’ll send you a copy.
The registered contact can be changed for the HSBC Child Trust Fund if any of the following applies:
the existing registered contact no longer wants to be the registered contact
the child is 16 years of age or over and wants to become the registered contact
the registered contact becomes incapacitated or dies
the child is adopted
a court order that names the existing registered contact as responsible for the child expires
new court order confirms that the existing registered contact should no longer be so
contact with the registered contact is lost
Transferring a Child Trust Fund to HSBC 
If you have an existing Child Trust Fund held with another provider, you can transfer it to HSBC. 
The HSBC Child Trust Fund invests in a fund which aims to provide capital growth through diversified investment across global markets.
To transfer a Child Trust Fund to us, please download the 'Transfer your Child Trust Fund HSBC''Transfer your Child Trust Fund HSBC' This link will open in a new window form. Before completing the form, make sure you read the important information, detailed below, under 'Important information and useful forms', so you understand the nature of the investment and the risk involved.
The HSBC Child Trust Fund is offered without advice. This means we aren’t required to assess the suitability of this product for you so you need to be confident about making your own investment decisions.
Bear in mind that the value of investments can fall as well as rise so you may get back less than you invest.
What else do you need to know? 
A Child Trust Fund account beneficially belongs to your child. Any money you or anyone else pays into the account is a gift to your child that they can only access when they turn 18.
You can transfer the Child Trust Fund account into a Junior ISA if you want to. Currently, we don’t offer Junior ISAs, but you can find out more about them at MoneyHelperMoneyHelper This link will open in a new window.
Do you need financial advice? 
We want to make sure that our products and services are right for your circumstances and that we are supporting you. If you’re not sure whether an investment is suitable for you, we recommend you consider taking financial advice.
To find out about getting investment advice from HSBC, read our advice options page. 
To find out more about the wider industry, including how to seek independent financial advice, you can visit MoneyHelperMoneyHelper This link will open in a new window. 
Important information and useful forms 
These documents explain the detail of the HSBC Child Trust Fund account and the nature of the underlying investment.
Updated terms and conditions are set out in the link below.
Key features of our Child Trust Fund (PDF, 242KB) Key features of our Child Trust Fund (PDF, 242KB) Download 
Key investor information - HSBC Global Strategy Balanced Portfolio (CTF Accumulation share class - PDF, 274KB) Key investor information - HSBC Global Strategy Balanced Portfolio (CTF Accumulation share class - PDF, 274KB) \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/products/child-trust-fund/
########Top of main content 
Contents insurance 
Get cover for the loss of, or damage to the contents in your home 
Get cover for your belongings 
Make sure your belongings are covered with our contents insurance. Get a quote today and apply for a contents insurance policy, provided by Aviva.
Get a contents insurance quote 
Retrieve a quote, or continue with one you were given in the last 90 days.
Retrieve a quote Retrieve a quote This link will open in a new window 
Why get contents insurance with us? 
Complete protection 
Up to £50,000 for loss or damage to your belongings, and cover for your contents if you're temporarily away from the home.
Flexible policy 
There’s no cost for changing your cover whenever you need to, but your premium may increase if you add extras.
24/7 support 
Your UK-based home insurance claims team are available around the clock, whenever you need to make a contents claim.
Refund switching costs 
Get a new policy with us before your current policy ends and we’ll refund any cancellation fees. T&Cs apply. Get a refundGet a refund This link will open in a new window.
What does our contents insurance cover? 
Pay in regular instalments, with no additional charges if you'd like to pay monthly.
Up to £50,000 for loss or damage to your belongings 
You could receive up to £50,000 to cover loss or damage to your belongings or up to £80,000 on request. This could be caused by fire, explosions, smoke, heating fuel leaks or falling aerials. 
Replace items on a like-for-like basis 
We'll replace any contents item you claim for on a like-for-like basis, or replace it with its nearest available equivalent. 
Cover for your contents while you're temporarily away from home 
If you're away from home, you could still get cover for your contents including up to £5,000 for a member of your household who is away working or studying. 
All subject to your policy terms and conditions.
What's not covered by our contents insurance? 
Any excess on your policy schedule
Contents wear and tear
We'll reduce the amount we pay for clothes or household linen (eg bedding) to reflect wear and tear
Damage that happens after the home has been left unoccupied for longer than the period shown in your policy
Loss or damage caused by domestic animals
Motorised vehicles, aircraft, boats, boards and other craft and any parts, spares or accessories
Other exclusions apply – please read the General Exclusions section of the policy booklet (PDF, 856KB)policy booklet (PDF, 856KB) This link will open in a new window.
Optional extras 
Choose from a variety of extra cover to make sure your policy protects everything you need it to.
Accidental damage to contents cover 
Add this cover for sudden and unexpected damage to the contents in your home, such as spilling wine on the sofa or knocking over your TV.
What's not covered by our accidental damage cover for contents? 
Any excess on your policy
Damage caused by wear and tear, vermin, insects, fungus, the weather or gradual damage
Damage caused by water entering the home
Damage caused by domestic animals
For a full list of events covered and exclusions please read the Accidental Damage Contents section of the policy booklet (PDF, 856KB)policy booklet (PDF, 856KB) This link will open in a new window.
Personal belongings cover 
Add this cover to protect your personal belongings wherever you are in the world, with cover between £2,000 and £10,000, and a single item limit of £1,500.
What's not covered by our personal belongings cover? 
Any excess on your policy
Theft from an unattended vehicle – unless covered as specified in your policy
Damage caused by wear and tear, vermin, insects, fungus, the weather or gradual damage
Business or professional use of musical instruments, photo and sporting equipment
Hearing aids
Pedal cycles
For a full list of what's covered and exclusions please read the Personal Belongs Cover section of the policy booklet (PDF, 856 KB)policy booklet (PDF, 856 KB) This link will open in a new window.
Pedal cycles cover 
Add this cover to protect your bike with worldwide cover of up to £2,500 towards theft or damage.
What's not covered by our pedal cycles cover? 
Any excess on your policy
Any pedal cycles with a motor
Theft if the pedal cycle is left unattended or unsecured
Loss or damage to tyres or accessories unless the pedal cycle is stolen or damaged at the same time
Loss or damage while the pedal cycle is being used for racing or business purposes.
For a full list of what's covered and exclusions please read the Pedal Cycles Cover section of the policy booklet (PDF, 856 KB)policy booklet (PDF, 856 KB) This link will open in a new window.
Business equipment cover 
You can select up to £5,000 of business equipment cover if you work from home.
What does clerical business equipment cover include? 
Up to £500 of cover against loss, damage or theft of stock and samples used for your employment when stored at your home
Up to £300 for money belonging to your business, and credit cards used for the purpose of your business. Your chosen limit will be shown in your policy
What doesn't clerical business equipment cover include? 
Any excess on your policy
Damage excluded in the Contents section of your policy
Business credit cards, business or personal money
Certain types of business stock or trade samples eg furs, antiques or works of art
For a full list of what's covered and exclusions please read the Clerical Business Equipment Cover section of the policy booklet (PDF, 856 KB)policy booklet (PDF, 856 KB) This link will open in a new window.
High-quality home insurance 
5 Star rated by Defaqto 
HSBC Home Insurance is rated 5 Star by Defaqto, the independent financial information business. This means our policy is one of the most comprehensive in the market.
Find out about Defaqto Find out about Defaqto This link will open in a new window 
Get a contents insurance quote 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if:
you're over the age of 16
your property is in the UK (excludin\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/contents/
########Top of main content 
Home insurance 
Choose the level of cover that’s right for your home. 
Insure your home with us 
Fully protect your home with our comprehensive home insurance policy, provided by Aviva. Get a home insurance quote with HSBC today and protect all the things you need it to – whether that's buildings cover, contents cover or both.
Get a quote Get a quote This link will open in a new window 
Retrieve a quote, or continue with one you were given in the last 90 days.
Retrieve a quote Retrieve a quote This link will open in a new window 
Why get home insurance with us? 
5 Star cover 
Our home insurance is rated 5 Star by Defaqto, the independent financial information business.
24/7 support 
Your UK-based home insurance claims team are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, whenever you need to make a claim.
Flexible policy 
There’s no cost for changing your cover whenever you need to, although your premium may increase if you add extras.
Choose the best home insurance for you 
Explore our home insurance policies to find the one that gives you the cover you need.
Buildings and contents insurance
Combine contents and buildings insurance to get complete coverage for your home.
Get a quote Get a quote For Buildings and contents insurance This link will open in a new window 
Contents insurance
Get cover for the loss of, or damage to the contents in your home
Get a quote Get a quote For Contents only insurance This link will open in a new window 
Buildings insurance
We'll cover whatever it costs to repair your home after loss or damage (exclusions apply).
Get a quote Get a quote For Buildings only insurance This link will open in a new window 
5 Star rated home insurance 
5 Star rated by Defaqto 
HSBC Home Insurance is rated 5 Star by Defaqto, the independent financial information business. This means our policy is one of the most comprehensive in the market.
Find out about Defaqto Find out about Defaqto This link will open in a new window 
Refund your switching costs 
If you take a home insurance policy with us before your current policy ends, we’ll refund any cancellation fees. T&Cs apply.
Get a refund Get a refund This link will open in a new window 
Frequently asked questions 
What is home insurance? 
Home insurance is a way to financially protect yourself from the cost if something were to go wrong with your home, or the things you have in it.
What does home insurance cover? 
Home insurance can include buildings cover and/or contents cover.
Buildings insurance covers the cost of repairing or rebuilding your home if it’s damaged for example, by storm, floods, fire, lightning or subsidence – but it won’t cover you for general wear and tear.
Contents insurance covers your possessions in case they’re damaged, stolen or lost. For example, if there was a fire, flood or burglary at your home, it would cover the cost of replacing your belongings.
Do you need home insurance when you're renting? 
No, it’s not a legal requirement to have home insurance when you're renting. But, it can help protect your possessions in case they’re lost, stolen or damaged.
What is voluntary excess on home insurance? 
Voluntary excess is an optional amount you can pay towards an insurance claim – on top of the compulsory excess. For example, if your policy has a compulsory excess of £150 and you add a voluntary excess of £100, you’ll need to pay £250 if you make a claim.
Increasing the voluntary excess on your insurance can be worthwhile because it can lower the cost of your insurance premium – the amount of money you pay for an insurance policy. This is because the insurer won’t have to pay out as much in the event of a claim. 
But, you need to weigh up the pros and cons to help you decide if it’s the right option for you. You should consider your total insurance excess and make sure it’s at a level you feel comfortable paying, in case you ever need to make a claim.
You might also be interested in
How to save money on your home insurance
From paying annually to increasing your excess, here are some things you can do to save money.
What insurance do you need with your mortgage?
If your mortgage application is approved, it's now time to think about what home insurance you might need.
How much home insurance do you need?
See what's covered by different policies and work out what you may need.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/home/
########Top of main content 
Life Cover 
Protect you and your loved ones with an HSBC Life Insurance policy. 
Take care of your loved ones 
What is life insurance? A life insurance policy offers financial support to your loved ones if anything were to happen to you.
It pays out a cash lump sum if you die or are diagnosed with a terminal illness. This can pay off any mortgage debt or be used towards living costs.
HSBC Life Cover is provided by HSBC Life (UK) Limited. Terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions apply.
Get a quote in minutes – or use the cover calculator to work out how much cover you may need before you apply.
Get a quick quote 
Already have a life policy through one of our insurance providers? Find out how you can manage your policy or make a claim.
Manage your policy 
What you'll get with an HSBC Life Cover policy 
Fixed premiums 
Your premiums will never go up – and the younger you are when you take out your policy, the lower your monthly payments will be.
Lump sum payout 
You or your family will get a lump sum if you die or are diagnosed with a terminal illness.
Reliable cover 
HSBC Life paid over 98% of claims in 2022.
Why choose HSBC Life Cover? 
Quick quote 
Get an online quote to cover just you, or you and someone else. 
Cover calculator 
Work out how much cover you may need just for you. 
Choice of cover 
Choose from level or decreasing cover, and a single or a joint policy. 
Critical illness add-on 
Option to add extra cover for 35 conditions (level cover only, decreasing cover is available through our advisers). 
Do you need level or decreasing life insurance? 
Level cover 
This pays a cash lump sum that could be used to help to cover your family's living costs and/or any fixed debt like an interest-only mortgage.
The amount of cover stays the same throughout the policy
Decreasing cover 
Usually a little cheaper than level cover, this type of policy is designed to cover decreasing debts, such as a capital repayment mortgage.
The amount of cover reduces over time
More on level vs decreasing cover 
What is level cover life insurance?
A level cover policy provides a lump sum that could be used to pay off debts, protect your family's living costs - even go towards your children's further education.
Because the payout amount stays the same for the length of the policy, you and your family will always know how much cover you'll have if the unexpected happens. 
Level cover can also be used to protect an interest-only mortgage, as the balance of the mortgage would stay the same throughout the term.
What is decreasing cover life insurance?
A decreasing cover policy also provides a lump sum payout. This type of policy is often used to protect a capital repayment mortgage. That's because the amount that gets paid out if you die goes down over time, in line with your reducing mortgage balance. 
If you're just looking to protect your home, you could get the support you need and pay less each month with decreasing cover.
And if you take out a policy for the same amount and term as your HSBC mortgage, the Mortgage Repayment Guarantee will ensure your mortgage is repaid in the event of a successful claim – regardless of any rises in interest rates.
Other options for your HSBC Life Cover 
Single or joint policy 
Single life policies provide cover for one person. It's tailored to the insured person's needs and pays out once when they die.
Joint life policies provide cover for 2 people. The same cover amount applies to both insured people. It pays out once when either person dies, at which point the policy ends.
Quotes are provided online for both single and joint policies.
Learn more about single or joint insurance cover >
Add critical illness cover 
With this add-on, you'd receive a lump sum on diagnosis of one of 35 illnesses and surgical procedures including, cancer (excludes less advanced cases), heart attack, stroke and dementia. 
A critical illness policy payout can be used to cover bills and living costs time when you need time off work for treatment. It could also help get treated quicker through private medical care.
Keep in mind, this add-on is only available as level cover. If you need critical illness cover that reduces over time (known as decreasing cover), or a standalone policy without life cover, speak to one of our protection advisers.
What's not covered? 
HSBC Life Cover 
This doesn't provide cover:
if there are changes to your health, lifestyle or occupation – and you don't tell us about them before the policy starts
if you were to take your own life within the first 12 months of the policy
for death outside the policy term
HSBC Critical Illness Cover 
This doesn't provide cover:
for claims for within the first 90 days of the policy start date
if you don’t survive for a period of 10 days from the date of diagnosis
For full details of cover for both policies, view the policy documents.
Who can apply? 
You can apply for HSBC Life Cover if:
you're a UK resident (not including the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man)
you're over 17 and under 70 years of age (cover must end before your 80th birthday)
you're registered for online or mobile banking (for joint cover, only one person needs to be registered)
Not yet registered for online banking? Register now
You can add on critical illness cover if:
you're aged between 17 and 69 when the policy starts (cover must end before your 75th birthday)
Need cover after your 75th birthday? Speak to one of our protection adviserprotection adviser This link will open in a new window.
Things to know 
Important documents 
Life Cover policy document and summary of cover (PDF, 269KB) Life Cover policy document and summary of cover (PDF, 269KB) Download 
Critical Illness Cover policy document and summary of cover (PDF, 224KB) Critical Illness Cover policy document and summary of cover (PDF, 224KB) Download 
About our Insurance services (PDF, 123KB) About our Insurance services (PDF, 123KB) Download 
HSBC Life (UK) Ltd Privacy Notice Overview (\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/life-cover/
########Top of main content 
Critical Illness Cover 
Get a lump sum on diagnosis of a specified illness to help support you and your family. 
Get a lump sum on diagnosis of a specified illness to help support you and your family 
Critical Illness Cover can offer you a lump sum on diagnosis of a specified illness or surgical procedure. It can be used to help you with bills and day-to-day expenses, or you could use it to fund private medical care.
Cover is provided by HSBC Life (UK) Limited. Please check the policy documents for full details as terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions apply.
You can also take out Critical Illness Cover as an add-on when you apply online for Life Cover.
Get a Life Cover quote 
If you'd like to buy a standalone Critical Illness Cover policy without life cover, our protection advice service is available - at no extra cost - to HSBC UK customers who are UK residents aged 18 and over.
Get protection advice 
What you'll get 
A lump sum 
You'll get a lump sum on diagnosis of a specified critical illness or surgical procedure.
Coverage for a variety of illnesses 
Critical Illness Cover includes diagnosis of a range of critical illnesses or surgical procedures, including cancer, heart attack and stroke.
Reliable pay outs 
HSBC Life paid over 98% of claims in 2022
Why get cover with us 
Combine with Life Cover 
Critical Illness Cover is available as an add-on when you apply online for Life Cover. 
Available as a standalone policy 
A standalone Critical Illness Cover policy without Life Cover is available through our advisers. 
What's covered 
Critical illnesses covers a range of conditions, including:
terminal illness
cancer - excluding less advanced cases
heart attack
multiple sclerosis
stroke
alzheimers or dementia
What's not covered 
As with all insurance policies, certain terms and conditions, exclusions, and limitations will apply.
We won’t usually cover you within the first 90 days of the policy start date or if you don’t survive for a period of 10 days from the date of diagnosis.
With Critical Illness Cover bought as an add-on, if you cancel your Critical Illness policy or make a successful claim, your Critical Illness policy will end but your Life Cover policy will continue. If you cancel your Life Cover policy or make a successful Life Cover claim, your Critical Illness Cover will end.
For full details of cover available as an add on when you apply for Life Cover online, download the policy document.
If you already have a policy, your existing terms may vary. Please call us on 0345 745 6125 to find out more.
Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00, Monday to Friday (excluding bank holidays). 
Get a quote 
Who can apply? 
You can apply for life insurance from us if you're a UK resident (not including the Channel Islands or the Isle of Man). You also need to be registered for online banking or mobile banking. For joint cover, only one person needs to be registered.
You're eligible for Life Cover if you're:
over 17 and under 70 years of age
cover must end before your 80th birthday
You're eligible for Critical Illness Cover if you're:
aged between 17 and 69 when the policy starts
cover must end before your 75th birthday
Need Critical Illness Cover after your 75th birthday? Please speak to a protection adviserprotection adviser This link will open in a new window.
Things to know 
Important documents 
Critical Illness Cover policy document and summary of cover (PDF, 224KB)Critical Illness Cover policy document and summary of cover (PDF, 224KB) This link will open in a new window (New policies only)
HSBC Life (UK) Ltd Privacy Notice Overview (PDF, 196KB)HSBC Life (UK) Ltd Privacy Notice Overview (PDF, 196KB) This link will open in a new window
If you already have a policy, your existing terms may vary. Please call us on 0345 745 6125 to find out more. Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00, Monday to Friday (excluding bank holidays). Calls may be monitored and/or recorded.
How to apply 
Get a Life Cover quote
You can take out Critical Illness Cover as an add-on when you apply online for Life Cover.
Get a quick quote 
Get a standalone policy
If you'd like to buy a standalone Critical Illness Cover policy without Life Cover, our protection advice service is available - at no extra cost - to HSBC UK customers who are UK residents aged 18 and over.
If you’re interested in using this service, please email us at wealthadvicecentre@hsbc.co.uk and an adviser will be in touch to arrange an introductory call.
Get protection advice 
When applying for an HSBC mortgage, one of our Mortgage Advisers will also be able to discuss Critical Illness Cover with you.
Frequently asked questions 
What is considered a critical illness? 
Your policy covers certain illnesses, which are listed and described in the policy document.
The policy is designed to cover specific listed illnesses and may not cover an illness which is described as ‘critical’ by the medical profession.
For full details of cover, download the policy document.
If you already have a policy, your existing terms may vary. Please call HSBC Life on 0345 745 6125 to find out more. Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00 from Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
Can I cancel my critical illness cover? 
You can cancel your HSBC policy at any time by calling HSBC Life on 0345 745 6125. Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00 from Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
If you’re unsure if your cover still meets your needs, you may wish to speak to a financial adviser. If you're experiencing financial difficulty, we may be able to help, please visit Managing your policy.
Does critical illness insurance cover pre-existing conditions? 
Critical Illness insurance can cover pre-existing conditions.
Critical Illness cover is underwritten at application stage so it’s important you carefully read and answer the medical questions to ensure we’re made aware of any pre-existing conditions you may have.
We’ll then review your application to establish if cover can be provid\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/critical-illness-cover/
########Top of main content 
Make a Select and Cover claim 
Find out how to make a claim or manage your existing Select and Cover policy 
Make a claim 
For Mobile Phone, Gadget or Excess Protection claims 
If you're making a claim on a Mobile Phone, Gadget or Excess Protection policy, the quickest way to do it is online.
Log on to make a claim Log on to make a claim This link will open in a new window 
For Worldwide Travel claims 
If you don't need urgent medical attention, you can make a Worldwide travel claim online.
Make a travel claim Make a travel claim This link will open in a new window 
For all types of claims 
You can make a claim by phone for all types of cover by calling:
0345 302 8387
Lines open 08:00 to 20:00 Monday to Friday and 09:00 to 17:00 Saturday and Sunday (excluding Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day). Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Emergency contacts 
Worldwide Travel 
If an insured person is injured or falls ill while travelling, please contact the 24-hour Medical Emergency helpline.
+44 1603 208951
Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Motor Breakdown 
Report onlineReport online This link will open in a new window or contact the 24-hour helpline.
0330 159 0337
Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Home Emergency 
Contact the 24-hour helpline.
0345 302 8387
Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Manage your Select and Cover policy 
From viewing or updating your details to changing your coverage11 view footnote 1, log on to online banking to manage your Select and Cover policy22 view footnote 2.
Log on to online banking Log on to online banking This link will open in a new window 
Updating your Select and Cover policy 
Log on to change your cover. You can switch choices annually as your circumstances change. You can swap all your options during an annual review period - we'll send you a reminder to review your options before your 30 day anniversary window opens.
You can also add and remove 1 option during each year, so long as you maintain a minimum of 3.
When you make a change, we’ll let you know how it affects your premium. Any changes to your payments will always be calculated on a daily basis and there are no admin fees, so you’ll only ever pay for the time you've been covered.
What can I change and when? 
Your options explained 
When What 
Policy start date	You can make unlimited changes to your selection within a 30-day policy cooling off period.	
Cooling off period	After the first 30 days of your policy and before the anniversary window you can add 1 and remove 1 option from your selection as long as you maintain a minimum of 3 options.	
1st policy anniversary	For 30 days before your policy anniversary you can make unlimited changes to your selection. Changes will become effective from your policy anniversary.	
Between your previous and next anniversary	From each policy anniversary until the next anniversary window you can add 1 and remove 1 option from your selection as long as you maintain a minimum of 3 options.	
Next anniversary	Each year you will have a 30-day anniversary window when you can make unlimited changes to your selection effective from your policy anniversary.	
Your options explained 
When Policy start date	
What You can make unlimited changes to your selection within a 30-day policy cooling off period.	
	
When Cooling off period	
What After the first 30 days of your policy and before the anniversary window you can add 1 and remove 1 option from your selection as long as you maintain a minimum of 3 options.	
	
When 1st policy anniversary	
What For 30 days before your policy anniversary you can make unlimited changes to your selection. Changes will become effective from your policy anniversary.	
	
When Between your previous and next anniversary	
What From each policy anniversary until the next anniversary window you can add 1 and remove 1 option from your selection as long as you maintain a minimum of 3 options.	
	
When Next anniversary	
What Each year you will have a 30-day anniversary window when you can make unlimited changes to your selection effective from your policy anniversary.	
Cancelling your Select and Cover policy 
You can cancel your policy at any time with no exit fee. Log on to online banking to cancel or call us on 0345 051 1351. Opening hours are 8:00 to 18:00, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays. We may monitor or record calls. Terms and conditions apply.
If you decide to cancel your HSBC Select and Cover policy, you won't be able to buy it again in the future.
Cancellation terms and conditions 
Your right to cancel 
You can cancel your policy within 30 days of the policy start date (or from when you receive your documents, whichever is later). If you decide to cancel within these 30 days you will receive a full refund of any premium you have paid providing no successful claims have been made on your policy.
If there's been a successful claim on your policy, or you wish to cancel after the first 30 days, you can cancel your policy with immediate effect at any time. You'll receive a refund for any unused days you have already paid for. Subject to HSBC Select and Cover still being available to purchase, you’ll be able to repurchase it no sooner than six months from the date your cancellation becomes effective.
To cancel your policy please visit us online at www.hsbc.co.uk call us on 0345 051 1351 (opening hours 8:00 to 18:00, Monday to Friday, excluding public holidays, calls may be monitored or recorded), or write to us at Customer Service Centre BX8 7HB.
Our right to cancel 
HSBC (or any agent appointed and who acts with HSBC's specific authority) may also cancel this policy where there is a valid reason for doing so by sending written notice to your last known address or email address explaining the reasons. Valid reasons include, but are not limited to:
Where a premium is not paid on time. If this happens, we'll let you know by email or letter. If the payment is not received within 14 days from the date of the lette\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/select-and-cover/claims/
########Top of main content 
Income Protection 
Get the financial support you need if you're unable to work due to an accident or injury 
Get the financial support you need 
If you're unable to work due to an accident or injury, Income Protection pays a monthly benefit to help replace your loss of earnings.
The policy can also provide specialist rehabilitation services to help you get back on your feet and back in to work.
Apply for Income Protection through our protection advice service, available at no extra cost to HSBC UK customers who are UK residents aged 18 and over.
Get protection advice 
What you'll get 
A monthly benefit 
You'll receive a monthly benefit paid directly to your bank account.
A dedicated claims assessor 
Your dedicated claims assessor will be on hand to offer support.
Rehabilitation services 
Help you get back on your feet and back in to work.
Why get cover with us 
Flexible policy terms 
Choose how soon you'd want your monthly pay outs to start and how long the policy needs to run. 
Fixed monthly payments 
Pay fixed monthly payments throughout your policy, unless you take an increasing cover policy through one of our advisers. 
What's covered 
Income Protection offers you the financial support you need if you're unable to work due to an accident or injury. It pays a monthly tax-free benefit to help replace loss of earnings. The value of any tax benefits described depends on your individual circumstances. Tax rules may change in the future
Policies can also provide specialist rehabilitation services, tailored to you, which can help you get back on your feet and into work.
Rehabilitation providers specialise in helping customers affected by our most common causes of claims. These include psychological issues such as stress, anxiety and depression; musculoskeletal problems, such as back pain; and cancer. This means you can get the practical help and the treatment you need without delay.
Income Protection can be taken over a set term or until you retire.
We offer Income Protection policies from a hand-picked list of providers through our protection advice service.
What's not covered 
As with all insurance policies, terms and conditions, exclusions and limitations will apply.
How to apply 
If you'd like to apply for an Income Protection policy, our protection advisers are available to help via video or phone call. They’ll spend time getting to know your situation then recommend a policy that's right for you from our hand-picked list of providers.
If you’re interested in using this service, please email us at wealthadvicecentre@hsbc.co.uk and an adviser will be in touch to arrange an introductory call.
Get protection advice 
When applying for an HSBC mortgage, one of our Mortgage Advisers will also be able to discuss Income Protection with you.
Frequently asked questions 
Can I claim on Income Protection while on sick leave? 
Income Protection products are designed to replace your income whilst you are off sick. You can claim on Income Protection while on sick leave.
You can contact your product provider for more information on what's covered with your policy.
Are Income Protection payments subject to income tax? 
Income Protection payments are paid gross and therefore not subject to any UK income tax.
Contact your product provider for more information on how payments are handled within your policy.
Does Income Protection cover redundancies? 
Income Protection policies available through HSBC UK don't cover redundancy. A claim would only be considered if you were unable to work due to an accident or ill health.
Some policies, known as Accident, Sickness and Unemployment, do also cover redundancy. These policies are not available through HSBC UK. Contact your product provider for more information on what's covered with your policy.
Explore more
Manage your protection policy
How much life insurance do you need?
What is critical illness insurance?
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/income-protection/
########Top of main content 
Home insurance support 
Find out how you can manage your policy, and how we can help if you need to make a claim. 
What would you like to do? 
Go straight to:
Make a home insurance claim 
Other home insurance claim options 
Renew, amend or cancel your home insurance 
Policy documents 
Make a home insurance claim 
Before you make a claim, make sure you have:
your insurance policy number
details of what you're claiming for
an estimate of the size of the affected area
relevant receipts, invoices or quotes
All home insurance claims are handled by Aviva.
Make a claim online 
It only takes 10 minutes to tell us what's happened and start your claim. Where possible, you’ll get an instant decision. Aviva will contact you within 2 hours if they need to talk to you. This will be between 8:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday, or 8:00 to 16:00 on weekends.
Make sure you’ve got all your claim details to hand before you begin as you can’t save the form once you’ve started.
Make a claim online Make a claim online This link will open in a new window 
Make a claim by phone 
If there's been an emergency or if you’d like to make a claim over the phone, call our insurer, Aviva. They'll help you as soon as possible.
0345 300 5899
Lines are open 24/7. Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Examples of emergencies 
Here are some examples of emergencies:
your home isn't safe and secure due to damaged locks, doors or windows
there's standing water in your home as a result of flooding
there's ongoing dripping or leaking water
your home is uninhabitable
there's any risk of injury to you or anyone else from hazards like falling masonry or electrocution
Other home insurance claim options 
Legal expenses 
Give the team a call for legal support. You could be provided with a lawyer and up to £50,000 of legal costs covered to pursue or defend a wide range of disputes.
0800 051 1715
Lines open 24/7. Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Home emergency cover 
Give this number a call for expert help in the event of an emergency with your property such as, electrical and plumbing emergencies or lost keys.
0345 300 0959
Renew, amend or cancel your home insurance 
Moving house or need to make changes to your policy? You can renew, change your cover or cancel your policy at any time.
If you’re thinking about cancelling your home insurance to save money, here are few things to consider before you make a decision.
Manage your home insurance Manage your home insurance This link will open in a new window 
Or, you can give us a call on:
0345 300 5898
Lines are open 8:00 to 20:00 Monday to Friday, 8:00 to 16:00 on Saturdays and 10:00 to 16:00 on Sundays. On public holidays, opening hours may vary.
Policy documents 
Home Insurance Policy Booklet (PDF, 836 KB) Home Insurance Policy Booklet (PDF, 836 KB) Download 
HSBC Home Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 79 KB) HSBC Home Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 79 KB) Download 
HSBC Home Insurance Important Information (PDF, 221 KB) HSBC Home Insurance Important Information (PDF, 221 KB) Download 
Summary of Limits and Excesses (PDF, 80 KB) Summary of Limits and Excesses (PDF, 80 KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 105 KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 105 KB) Download 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/home/claims/
########Top of main content 
Make a travel insurance claim 
Find out how to make a claim, whether you're at home or abroad. 
About HSBC Travel Insurance claims 
HSBC Travel Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Aviva manages the claims process from start to finish so that your claims are handled as quickly and efficiently as possible.
When to make an HSBC Travel Insurance claim 
If your trip has been cancelled, your first step should be to contact your travel and/or accommodation provider for a refund.
If you paid any part with your debit or credit card or PayPal, you may also contact the payment provider for a refund. If you paid with an HSBC debit or credit card, here’s how you can raise a dispute.
Claiming a refund from either your travel operator or your card provider may lead to a better outcome for yourself than claiming via your travel insurance, as you may be able to claim the full amount you paid without having to pay an excess. You could also potentially recover losses for all the party members on the booking, some of whom may not have taken insurance. You can find further useful information on this topic on the MoneyHelperMoneyHelper This link will open in a new window website.

If you’ve been unable to get a refund from your travel and/or accommodation provider or your payment provider, please contact Aviva to make a claim.
Coronavirus advice 
For the latest coronavirus travel guidance, see what’s covered under HSBC Travel Insurance.
How to make a claim 
If you don't need urgent medical attention, you can make a claim online.

Make a claim online Make a claim online This link will open in a new window 
All medical emergency lines are open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year:
All travel claim lines are open 8am to 6pm Monday to Friday and 8am to 6pm on Saturdays, closed Sundays.
For HSBC Premier
Medical emergency line: +44 (0)1603 605 135
For travel claims: +44 (0)1603 605 122
For HSBC Private Banking and Premier (retained Jade benefits)
Medical emergency line: +44 (0)1603 605 102
For travel claims: +44 (0)1603 605 122
For HSBC Select and Cover
Medical emergency line: +44 (0)1603 208 95
For travel claims: +44 (0)345 302 8387
For HSBC Insurance Aspects 
Medical emergency line: +44 (0)1603 605 142
For travel claims: +44 (0)1603 604 910
For HSBC Gold MasterCard and HSBC Platinum MasterCard 
Medical emergency line: +44 (0)1243 621 064
For travel claims: +44 (0)1603 604 910
What you’ll need to make a claim 
You’ll need to provide Aviva with:
confirmation of the original booking and which parts of it are non-refundable
evidence you’ve tried to get your money back from your travel and/or accommodation provider, plus your credit or debit card provider if you paid by card - for example, copies of emails you’ve sent and/or their replies
details of any self-isolation advice you’ve been given by either your GP or from NHS 111
For all claims, normal policy excess, terms and conditions, exclusions and claims assessment apply.
How long will it take to process my claim? 
As soon as you’ve notified Aviva of your claim, they will send you a claims pack detailing the information they need from you. To ensure your claim is handled as swiftly as possible, please follow the instructions in this pack.
After receiving your details, Aviva will assess your claim and make a payment to you within 28 days if your claim’s been successful.
If you’re having financial difficulties, please visit our financial support page for ways we can help.
Policy documents 
HSBC Premier Account & Private Banking Worldwide Travel Insurance
HSBC Travel Insurance Policy Wording: HSBC Private Banking, HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits) and HSBC Premier Accounts (PDF, 528KB) HSBC Travel Insurance Policy Wording: HSBC Private Banking, HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits) and HSBC Premier Accounts (PDF, 528KB) Download 
HSBC Premier Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 153KB) HSBC Premier Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 153KB) Download 
HSBC Private Banking Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 114KB) HSBC Private Banking Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 114KB) Download 
Premier (retained Jade benefits) Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 257KB) Premier (retained Jade benefits) Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 257KB) Download 
Select and Cover
Select and Cover Terms and Conditions (PDF, 427KB) Select and Cover Terms and Conditions (PDF, 427KB) Download 
HSBC Summary of Cover Limits (PDF, 105KB) HSBC Summary of Cover Limits (PDF, 105KB) Download 
Insurance Aspects Worldwide travel insurance
Your Travel Policy Document (PDF, 519KB) Your Travel Policy Document (PDF, 519KB) Download 
Insurance Product Information Document for customers aged under 70 (PDF, 296KB) Insurance Product Information Document for customers aged under 70 (PDF, 296KB) Download 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/travel/claims/
########Top of main content 
Manage your protection policy 
Find out how to manage your life insurance policy, and how to make a claim 
How to make a claim 
If you, your family, or loved ones need to make a claim, get in touch with your insurance provider to make sure it's handled quickly and sensitively. 
HSBC Life
For life cover or critical illness claims, visit: www.life.hsbc.co.uk/customers/how-to-make-a-claim/bank-policyholderswww.life.hsbc.co.uk/customers/how-to-make-a-claim/bank-policyholders This link will open in a new window
For income protection claims, call: 0345 745 6125
Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays). Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Aviva
Visit: www.aviva.co.uk/help-and-support/managing-your-policy/www.aviva.co.uk/help-and-support/managing-your-policy/ This link will open in a new window
Legal & General
Visit: www.legalandgeneral.com/existing-customers/life-cover-support/www.legalandgeneral.com/existing-customers/life-cover-support/ This link will open in a new window
Zurich
Visit: www.zurich.co.uk/life-insurance/manage-my-life-insurancewww.zurich.co.uk/life-insurance/manage-my-life-insurance This link will open in a new window
If you bought a policy with another provider through one of our HSBC UK protection advisers, please contact them directly.
Documents you may need to provide 
Life Insurance 
For life insurance claims, you may need a copy of the death certificate and other legal documents, including probate or letters of administration.
Critical Illness or terminal illness 
Policy providers may need a copy of letters from your doctor or the hospital relating to your diagnosis. 
They may also need to contact your doctor to confirm that your illness is covered under your policy. 
Income Protection 
You may need to provide information on your current income, such as pay slips or tax returns. 
Your provider may also need request a medical report from your doctor.
Help and advice 
If you’re dealing with grief, we can offer support to help you through difficult times.
We offer specialist advice to help you make important financial decisions, such as what to do with a loved one’s estate or how to manage your money after your partner dies.
There are also many organisations that offer practical advice and emotional support. Find out more about bereavement help.
Manage or cancel your policy 
Make a change 
If your circumstances change, such as you move house or start a family, you should review your existing cover to check that it still meets your needs.
Not sure what cover you need? You can speak to one of our protection advisers.
Keep in mind that if you cancel your policy, you would no longer be protected if anything were to happen. 
To make a change or cancel your policy, get in touch with the providers below:
HSBC Life
Call: 0345 745 6125
Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays). Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Aviva
Website: www.aviva.co.uk/help-and-support/managing-your-policy/www.aviva.co.uk/help-and-support/managing-your-policy/ This link will open in a new window
Legal & General
Website: www.legalandgeneral.com/existing-customers/life-cover-support/www.legalandgeneral.com/existing-customers/life-cover-support/ This link will open in a new window
Zurich
Website: www.zurich.co.uk/life-insurance/manage-my-life-insurancewww.zurich.co.uk/life-insurance/manage-my-life-insurance This link will open in a new window
If you bought a policy with another provider through one of our HSBC UK protection advisers, please contact the provider directly.
Frequently asked questions
What happens if I make a claim and I have both Life and Critical Illness Cover? 
If you make a successful:
Critical Illness claim, your Critical Illness policy will end but your Life Cover policy will continue
Life Cover claim or if you cancel your Life Insurance policy, your Critical Illness Cover will end
Where the policy covers two people, Critical Illness Cover will end if either person makes a successful Life Cover or Critical Illness Claim.
How long will it take to process my claim? 
It will depend on how quickly we can get the information we need from you.
Critical Illness Cover claims are usually paid within six weeks.
Life Cover claims are usually paid within four weeks.
This is based on HSBC Life (UK) internal claims data for 2019.
How can you help if I'm having difficulties paying my premium? 
If you're finding that your budget is tight and experiencing difficulties with your premiums, we may be able to help you so that your policy remains affordable whilst still providing you with a level of protection.
To discuss your options, please call:
0345 745 6125
Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays). Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Can I cash in a plan, bond or life policy? 
If you have an endowment plan, investment or distribution bond, or a whole of life policy with HSBC, you can choose to take some or all of the cash from it. If you take all the cash from it, your plan, bond or life policy will be cancelled.
To authorise this:
Download the Total or Partial Surrender form (PDF, 532KB)Total or Partial Surrender form (PDF, 532KB) This link will open in a new window.
Complete the form and send it to: Customer Service Centre, BX8 7HB.
HSBC Life (UK) may need to verify your identity and address before paying any benefits. We'll get in touch with you if we need to do this.
If you need any help completing the form, please call:
0345 745 6125
Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays). Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Please note, if you need a surrender form for an HSBC Onshore Investment Bond, contact the Bond BDM Support team on bondbdmsupport@hsbc.com.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link wil\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/life/claims/
########Top of main content 
Make an Insurance Aspects claim 
Find out how to make a claim if the worst should happen 
HSBC Insurance Aspects customers
This information is for HSBC Advance customers who already hold an Insurance Aspects policy for worldwide travel insurance, 24-hour motor breakdown assistance, or mobile phone insurance.
Close banner 
Worldwide travel insurance claims 
You can make a non-emergency travel insurance claim onlinemake a non-emergency travel insurance claim online This link will open in a new window or by calling Aviva on:
+44 (0)1603 604 910
Lines are open: Monday to Friday 08:00 to 18:00; Saturday 08:00 to 16:00
For medical emergencies, call:
+44 (0)1603 605 142
For Legal Expenses Claims and Advice Helpline
(+44) 1603 208 533
Lines are open: 24 hours a day, 365 days a year
Documents you may need when making a travel insurance claim 
Original receipts, bills, cash withdrawal slips, flight and luggage tickets, guarantees, instruction manuals, accident reports, any photographs of your belongings and medical certificates or reports.
A police report made as soon as is reasonably possible after discovering a theft or loss.
Evidence from an airline that you've reported loss or damage caused by them.
Written confirmation from your tour operator or carrier to validate any delays.
Evidence that you've been unable to get a refund from elsewhere.
Please note, this is not a complete list as each claim is different. Please read your policy document for full details.
Coronavirus advice 
For the latest coronavirus travel guidance, see what’s covered under HSBC Travel Insurance.
Mobile phone insurance claims 
You can register your mobile phones and make a mobile phone insurance claim onlinemake a mobile phone insurance claim online This link will open in a new window or by calling Likewize on:
0800 001 4278
+44 1603 606 372 (if calling from outside the UK)
Lines are open Monday to Friday: 08:00 to 20:00
Saturday, Sunday and public holidays: 08:00 to 18:00
Before you call 
The IMEI number of your mobile phone will be required if you make a claim.
You can find it by dialling *#06# on your phone’s keypad, on the box or your receipt, or by contacting your network provider.
24-hour motor breakdown assistance claims 
For motor breakdown assistance, you can report onlinereport online This link will open in a new window or contact the callout helpline on:
0800 001 4279
+44 1603 606 377 (if calling from outside the UK)
Lines are open: 24 hours a day, 365 days a year
What you'll need to hand when you call 
The exact location of both you and the vehicle, the road it is on or the nearest road junction.
The vehicle's make, model and registration number.
A contact telephone number.
Policy documents 
Terms and Conditions (PDF, 510KB) Terms and Conditions (PDF, 510KB) Download 
Your Travel Policy Document (PDF, 519KB) Your Travel Policy Document (PDF, 519KB) Download 
RAC Reimbursement form (PDF, 142KB) RAC Reimbursement form (PDF, 142KB) Download 
Your Mobile Phone Insurance Policy Document (PDF, 166KB) Your Mobile Phone Insurance Policy Document (PDF, 166KB) Download 
Your Motor Breakdown Policy Document (PDF, 798KB) Your Motor Breakdown Policy Document (PDF, 798KB) Download 
Insurance Product Information Document for customers aged under 70 (PDF, 300KB) Insurance Product Information Document for customers aged under 70 (PDF, 300KB) Download 
Insurance Product Information Document for customers aged over 70 (PDF, 230KB) Insurance Product Information Document for customers aged over 70 (PDF, 230KB) Download 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/aspects/claims/
########Top of main content 
Fraud and security centre
Keep up to date with the latest scams. 
Keeping your money safe
Fraud and security essentials 
Find out how to report unusual activity on your account and get advice on protecting yourself from fraud 
Report something 
If you think you've been targeted by a fraudster, let us know straight away. 
I don't recognise a transaction 
I'd like to dispute a transaction 
I've received a suspicious email 
I've received a suspicious text message 
My card is missing or stolen 
Protect yourself 
Get tips on keeping your money safe. 
Latest scam warnings 
Fraud and scams 
Recognising suspicious text messages 
HSBC Fraud and Cyber Awareness app 
Our fraud help leaflet 
Cryptocurrency fraud 
Bank securely 
Your shortcuts to some common tasks. 
Upload documents 
Stay safe online 
Reset your details 
Block your card 
Card security 
Don't miss a trick 
How we protect you 
You're protected by our global security network and advanced security technology 
Our Digital Security Promise 
We're working to protect you online. 
HSBC Safeguard 
Read about the set of initiatives we have in place to protect your money from financial crime. 
Authorised push payment scams 
Find out more about APP scams and the voluntary code we've signed up to, in order to help prevent them. 
Data Transparency PDF 
Find out more about how we protect you and when we might contact you. 
Find out more about different types of scams 
Do you know the difference between phishing and vishing? Learn how to spot a scam 
What is smishing? 
Got an unusual text from HSBC or another organisation? Don't tap, don't call, don't reply. 
What is phishing? 
Find out more about fake emails. 
What is vishing? 
If you get an unexpected phone call about your money, it could be a scam. 
Explore more 
Get Safe Online 
HSBC is a founder sponsor of Get Safe Online, a joint initiative between government, the police and businesses. 
Take Five 
Take Five offers straightforward advice to help everyone in the UK protect themselves against financial fraud. 
Cyber Aware 
Cyber Aware is a government campaign designed to help you learn how to protect yourself online. 
FCA warning list 
The Financial Conduct Authority lists unsafe firms to help you avoid being a victim of investment fraud.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/
########Top of main content 
Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance 
If you’re a Premier customer, here are the details of the worldwide travel cover for you and your family 
Relax with HSBC Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance 
Enjoy worldwide travel insurance for you and your loved ones.
Cover is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. You must complete an application to be covered. Please read the Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 152KB)Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 152KB) This link will open in a new window for a summary of terms, conditions, limitations and applicable exclusions.
For the latest coronavirus travel guidance, see what’s covered under HSBC Travel Insurance.
If you already have Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance, find out how you can manage your policy or make a claim.
Make a travel insurance claim 
Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance is only available to HSBC UK Premier bank account holders. It is not available on savings or other accounts.
Learn more about HSBC Premier 
What's included 
Worldwide cover for you, your partner, your dependent children and grandchildren 
The cover is for you (the HSBC account holder) and your domestic partner - if you're both under 70 years of age on the start date of your trip - and any dependent children or grandchildren travelling with you.
Your children are also covered if they're staying with a close relative, travelling with a relative who's over the age of 23, or going on a school/college trip independently with a teacher.
Children covered by this policy must be under 23. Grandchildren covered by the policy must be under the age of 23 and don’t have to live with you.
All insured persons must be residents of the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
To be covered for medical claims, you must be registered with a doctor in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
Holidays in the UK 
Holidays taken in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man are covered if they involve a stay of at least 2 consecutive nights.
They must also have either of the following:
pre-booked holiday accommodation in commercially-run premises 
pre-paid bookings on public transport, including flights and ferries
Please see our definition of ‘pre-booked holiday accommodation’ in your policy document.
Business trips 
You're covered to travel outside the UK in connection with an insured person’s job to carry out non-manual work such as administrative tasks, meetings and conferences.
We don't cover any claim in connection with an insured person’s job where the trip involves:
manual or physical work of any kind
working with children
providing healthcare, policing, security or military service
an insured person’s role as a politician, religious leader, professional entertainer or sportsperson
Cruises 
While this isn’t a specific cruise policy, cruises are covered as standard since they're simply another type of holiday. However, there is no cover for some items that cruise policies may specifically cover, e.g. missed ports, unused excursions, and change of itinerary.
Medical conditions 
You'll need to call the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline on 0800 051 7457 before booking your trip if you, or any insured person, has in the last 12 months, experienced any of the following for a condition not on the accepted conditions list in your policy wording: 
been prescribed medication, including newly prescribed or repeat medication
received or is awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations
been referred to, or is under the care of, a specialist/consultant
been admitted to hospital or had surgery
You must also tell us if any of the above happen regarding conditions you have already declared, if there are any changes to prescribed medication or if any of the conditions deteriorate.
All pre-existing medical conditions must be on the 'accepted conditions' list in your policy wording to be covered, otherwise they must be disclosed to and accepted in writing by the insurer.
What's not covered 
Pre-existing conditions 
Pre-existing conditions are not covered at any time under the policy unless listed on the accepted conditions list, or were disclosed to and accepted in writing by the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline. You may be able to get cover for these from a specialist insurer. MoneyHelper has a list of these insurers – you can check its travel directorytravel directory This link will open in a new window or call 0800 138 7777.
Undiagnosed symptoms 
Undiagnosed symptoms are not covered. There is no cover for any claim where you knew that you or your travelling companion may be unable to travel or may need to come home early at the time you opened your HSBC Premier Account or booked your trip (whichever is later). For example, if one of you fell ill.
Things to know 
Are you eligible for Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance? 
Please ensure you can answer yes to the following questions:
Do you hold an HSBC Premier account?
Are you under 70 years of age?
Are you resident in the UK?
Are any dependent children/grandchildren under 23 years of age, on the start date of the trip?
Your application must have been accepted by HSBC for cover to apply.
When does the cover start and end? 
Cover starts from the date your travel insurance application is accepted. It remains in place until the account is closed, its converted to a different account, you cancel your policy, or you are no longer eligible for cover – whichever is sooner.
How to make a claim 
For details of how and when to make a claim, please visit our travel Insurance claims page.
Make a travel insurance claim
Policy documents 
Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 152KB) Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance Product Information Document (PDF, 152KB) Download 
HSBC Travel Insurance Policy Wording: HSBC Private Banking, HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits), and HSBC Premier Accounts (PDF, 528KB) HSBC Travel Insurance Policy Wording: HSBC P\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/premier-travel/
########Top of main content 
Insurance Aspects 
For existing HSBC Advance customers with an HSBC Insurance Aspects policy 
Existing HSBC Insurance Aspects customers 
HSBC Insurance Aspects is currently not available for new customers to purchase. This information is for HSBC Advance customers who already hold an Insurance Aspects policy for:
worldwide travel insurance (for eligible customers aged under 70)
24-hour motor breakdown assistance
mobile phone insurance
If you already have an Insurance Aspects policy with us, find out how you can make a claim.
Make an Insurance Aspects claim 
Worldwide travel insurance 
Your worldwide travel insurance includes:
Baggage cover for loss, theft or damage to your personal belongings.
Up to £10 million of medical cover for emergency medical treatment and associated expenses.
Cover if you miss your pre-booked transport or your pre-booked transport is delayed for at least 12 hours.
Up to £5,000 of cover for cancelling or coming home early - refund of unrecoverable travel and accommodation costs if you're forced to cancel or cut short your trip. Includes cover for if your transport or accommodation provider or booking agent becomes insolvent or you can't travel or continue your trip because of a terrorist attack.
Up to 31 days of winter sports cover for loss, theft or damage to winter sports equipment. Also includes additional benefits for delays due to avalanche, ski pack, piste closures or injury or illness which prevents you from taking part in winter sports activities.
Add optional upgrades for extended trip duration and increased cancellation cover.
You must be registered with a doctor in the UK in order to make any medical claims, or claims for cancellation or coming home early due to medical emergencies.
Worldwide travel insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. If you need to prove you have Travel Insurance, you can ask Aviva for confirmation of coverask Aviva for confirmation of cover This link will open in a new window.
Coronavirus advice 
For the latest coronavirus travel guidance, see what’s covered under HSBC Travel Insurance.
Declaring medical conditions before travelling 
You'll need to call the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment helpline on 08000 517 142 before booking a trip if, in the 12 months before making the booking or opening your account (whichever is later), an insured person:
has been prescribed medication, including newly-prescribed or repeat medication
has received or is awaiting medical treatment
has undergone or is awaiting tests or investigations
has been referred to or is under the care of a specialist or consultant
has been admitted to hospital or had surgery
You must also tell Aviva if:
any of the above happens for a condition you've already declared
there are any changes to prescribed medication
any of the conditions deteriorate
You should also tell Aviva after booking a trip but before you travel if:
an insured person is referred to a specialist or consultant or admitted to hospital because of a new condition or symptom, or a previously accepted condition
there's been any deterioration in an accepted condition you've already told us about
there's been a change in prescribed medication for an accepted condition you've already told us about
There's no cover where, at the time of opening your account or booking a trip (whichever is later), the insured person knew that their travel plans could reasonably be expected to be affected by the illness, injury or quarantine of:
a travelling companion
a person the insured was going to stay with
a close relative
a business colleague 
Existing conditions are not covered at any time under this policy unless either of these applies:
The insured person only has conditions included in the list of accepted conditions in the policy terms and conditions.
You’ve told Aviva about them and they’ve agreed in writing to provide cover.
Travel policy documents 
Your Travel Policy Document (PDF, 519KB)Your Travel Policy Document (PDF, 519KB) This link will open in a new window
Insurance Product Information Document for customers aged under 70 (PDF, 853.9KB)Insurance Product Information Document for customers aged under 70 (PDF, 853.9KB) This link will open in a new window
Do I need to notify you to use my HSBC UK debit or credit card outside the UK? 
No, you no longer need to notify us before you travel. To find out more about managing your money whilst you travel, see using your card abroad.
Mobile phone insurance 
Your mobile phone insurance is for contract and pay-as-you-go phones you own. It includes:
Worldwide cover for your mobile phone against loss, theft, breakdown (outside of warranty) or accidental damage. 
no upper claim value limit
excess payable of £50 for repair, £75 for replacement.
Up to 2 claims per HSBC Insurance Aspects holder per policy year.
Claims are settled by repairing or replacing the phone. Replacement phones are refurbished models.
Mobile phone insurance is underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited. While Aviva will be the insurer of this policy and will remain liable to you under the terms and conditions of this policy, it will use Likewize as its agent to help administer your policy and deal with claims.
Register your mobile phone 
Your mobile phone is automatically covered. However we recommend you register your mobile phone in advance to make the process of making a claim easier.
You can register your phone onlineregister your phone online This link will open in a new window or call 0800 001 4278.
Lines are open: Monday to Friday from 08:00 to 20:00
Saturday, Sunday and public holidays: 08:00 to 18:00
Mobile phone policy documents 
Your Mobile Phone Insurance Policy Document (PDF, 166KB)Your Mobile Phone Insurance Policy Document (PDF, 166KB) This link will open in a new window
Insurance Product Information Document for customers aged under 70 (PDF, 853.9KBInsurance Product Information Document for customers aged under 70 (PDF, 853.9KB This link will open in a new window
I\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/aspects/
########Top of main content 
Premier Bank Account 
Our premium bank account, with access to retail offers and preferential rates on borrowing and savings. Financial eligibility criteria apply. 
The account that unlocks a world of opportunity 
HSBC Premier is here to offer you and your family a truly premier banking experience. Whether you're buying a new home, investing in your future, caring for loved ones – or simply looking to enjoy the benefits of all your hard work. 
You’ll need to meet certain financial and other eligibility criteria to apply for an HSBC Premier Bank Account. 
Open an account today 
It's quick and easy to apply online.
How to apply 
Our Premier Account benefits 
Access the world with HSBC Global Money 
With an HSBC Premier Account you can apply for an HSBC Global Money Account, letting you convert, hold or send money in 50 currencies across 200 countries and regions worldwide with competitive exchange rates. Add your Global Money debit card to your digital wallet to start using it straight away. Global Money is only available via the HSBC app. Non-HSBC fees may apply. Learn moreLearn more about hsbc global money account. 
Relax with HSBC Worldwide Travel Insurance 
Enjoy worldwide travel insurance from Aviva for you and your loved ones, including winter sports cover. T&Cs apply.11 view footnote 2 
Enjoy exclusive access to our savings accounts and preferential rates 
Get access to our full range of savings accounts as an HSBC current account customer including our Regular Saver and Online Bonus Saver. You can also earn 3.20% AER (3.15% tax free) on your savings with a preferential rate on our Loyalty Cash ISA. 
Stay on top of your global accounts 
If you have HSBC accounts in other countries or regions you can manage them all online, plus you can make fee-free transfers between them in minutes. 
Spend flexibly with an arranged overdraft 
The first £500 of your arranged overdraft is interest-free, and it’s 39.9% EAR above that. Overdrafts are subject to status.
Representative example: 0% EAR variable on the first £500, 39.9% EAR22 view footnote 3 variable on anything above that, giving a representative rate of 21.8% APR33 view footnote 3 variable (assumed arranged overdraft £1,200).
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
Get it all for no monthly fee 
Experience all the benefits of a premium account without having to pay for the pleasure. 
Explore more 
Premier credit cards 
Discover a world of travel benefits and rewards. As a Premier customer you’ll have exclusive access to a choice of 2 credit cards, both of which give you reward points when you spend, discounted airport lounge access – and more besides.
Representative example: 
59.3% APR (variable) representative
18.9% per year (variable) representative
based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200 with an annual fee of £195
Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions.
Explore Premier credit cards
Benefits for you and your family 
Your Premier account offers a range of benefits and features.
Your family can also access a range of benefits could help them along their own life journey.
Explore family benefits
Home & Away - your rewards portal 
HSBC current accounts and credit cards allow you to access worldwide offers and discounts on everything from savings on clothing to exciting days out for the whole family. If you’re also a Premier customer, you can take advantage of extra special discounts too. We’re constantly updating our offers, so keep looking out for our new deals.
Explore Home and AwayExplore Home and Away This link will open in a new window
Support for you 
Our team of professionals are there to help you to manage your banking and finances. Our aim is to meet your personal needs so you can make the most of HSBC Premier. You can also get HSBC Premier Financial Advice to help you make the right choices when planning for the future. Fees and eligibility criteria also apply for our financial advice service.
Things to know before you apply 
Ready to apply? Before you do, there are a couple of things you should check you're happy with.
About your optional arranged overdraft 
When you open this account, you'll have the option to take out an arranged overdraft.
An arranged overdraft allows you to borrow money (up to an agreed limit) if there’s no money left in your account. This can be useful if you're hit with an unexpected bill, for example.
If a payment would take you past your arranged limit (or if you don’t have one), we may let you borrow using an unarranged overdraft. There's a chance that payments you try to make using an unarranged overdraft may be declined. However, we'll always try to allow essential payments if we can.
You can apply for an arranged overdraft when you open your account, or at any time later. You can ask to increase, remove or reduce your limit at any time in online or mobile banking, by phone or in-branch. Your new limit can't be less than what you owe.
We report account activity, including overdraft usage, to credit reference agencies. An unarranged overdraft lasting more than 30 days could have a negative impact on your credit rating.
Overdrafts are designed for short-term borrowing only and are subject to status.
Overdraft text alerts 
If we’ve got your mobile number, we’ll send you an SMS text alert if you’ve gone overdrawn or we know you’re about to. These alerts are designed to help you manage your overdraft usage and avoid being charged interest.
You can opt out of overdraft text alerts by calling us or asking us in-branch – but remember you’ll be opting out for all your current accounts with us. If you opt out or we don’t have an up-to-date number for you, you could end up paying interest you might otherwise have avoided.
What are the overdraft charges for this account? 
When you open your acc\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/day-to-day-banking/bank-account/
########Top of main content 
HSBC Bank Account 
Stay on top of your money with our simple everyday current account. 
Easy everyday banking that puts you in control 
Show your money who's boss with our Bank Account. Discover a new bank account that gives you everything you need for everyday banking, with no monthly account fee. You could even open a Bank Account online in around 12 minutes.
To apply, you'll need to be 18+.
How to apply How to apply for a HSBC Bank Account 
Here's what you get with your HSBC Bank Account 
Freedom to bank the way you want 
Online, in-app, by phone or in-branch. However you prefer to do your banking, we've got you covered.11 view footnote 1
Multiple ways to pay 
Pay on the go with Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, Google Pay or your contactless Visa debit card. Limits may apply.22 view footnote 2
An optional arranged overdraft 
You can apply for an arranged overdraft (subject to status), handy for unexpected expenses. Learn moreLearn more about optional arranged overdrafts.
Make banking a breeze with our app 
Make payments. Pay in cheques. Freeze and unfreeze your card. You can do it all in a few taps with our Mobile Banking app. You can also see any other HSBC products you have, like your mortgage or credit card, all in one secure place.
Understand your money at a glance 
Get instant notifications every time money goes in or out of your account, so you know exactly where you stand.33 view footnote 3 You can also see what your balance will be after bills – making budgeting much easier.
See your spending broken down into categories and set targets to help control it with Spending insights and Monthly budgets.
Enjoy exclusive access to our savings accounts 
Get access to our full range of savings accounts as an HSBC current account customer including our Regular Saver and Online Bonus Saver.
Things to know before you apply 
Ready to apply? Before you do, there are a couple of things you should check you're happy with.
About your optional arranged overdraft 
When you open this account, you'll have the option to take out an arranged overdraft.
An arranged overdraft allows you to borrow money (up to an agreed limit) if there’s no money left in your account. This can be useful if you're hit with an unexpected bill, for example.
If a payment would take you past your arranged limit (or if you don’t have one), we may let you borrow using an unarranged overdraft. There's a chance that payments you try to make using an unarranged overdraft may be declined. However, we'll always try to allow essential payments if we can. 
You can apply for an arranged overdraft when you open your account, or at any time later. You can ask to increase, remove or reduce your limit at any time in online or mobile banking, by phone or in-branch. Your new limit can't be less than what you owe.
We report account activity, including overdraft usage, to credit reference agencies. An unarranged overdraft lasting more than 30 days could have a negative impact on your credit rating.
This account comes with a £25 interest-free buffer. If you go overdrawn by more than that, you'll need to pay interest on the amount you borrow at the rate shown.
Overdrafts are designed for short-term borrowing only and are subject to status.
Overdraft text alerts 
If we’ve got your mobile number, we’ll send you an SMS text alert if you’ve gone overdrawn or we know you’re about to. These alerts are designed to help you manage your overdraft usage and avoid being charged interest.
You can opt out of overdraft text alerts by calling us or asking us in-branch – but remember you’ll be opting out for all your current accounts with us. If you opt out or we don’t have an up-to-date number for you, you could end up paying interest you might otherwise have avoided.
What are the overdraft charges for this account? 
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable)44 view footnote 4 on the first £25, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 38.9% APR (variable)55 view footnote 5. Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for the HSBC Bank Account is £20. Further details can be found online at our Overdrafts page.
To find out more, visit our Overdrafts page, where you can find out if you’re eligible for an arranged overdraft and use our overdraft cost calculator.
You may not be eligible for some account features if you remain resident outside the UK.
Who can apply? 
You can apply for an HSBC Bank Account if you:
are 18 or older
are happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK)
can provide ID and proof of address if needed
have read the important account documents below
Important account documents 
HSBC Bank Accountfee information document (PDF, 153 KB) HSBC Bank Accountfee information document (PDF, 153 KB) Download 
HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45 MB) HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45 MB) Download 
Pre-Contract Credit Information (PDF, 66 KB) Pre-Contract Credit Information (PDF, 66 KB) Download 
Guide to Credit Scoring (PDF, 91 KB) Guide to Credit Scoring (PDF, 91 KB) Download 
Glossary of Terms (PDF, 75 KB) Glossary of Terms (PDF, 75 KB) Download 
Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Download 
UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 106 KB) UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 106 KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 138 KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 138 KB) Download 
Important notes Important notes Opens in overlay 
Apply from outside the UK or EU eligible countries 
If you’re applying from another country or region, please speak to your local branch to apply for an account. Or, you can apply online using th\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/bank-account/
########Top of main content 
HSBC Advance Bank Account 
Easy everyday banking, plus added benefits and rewards 
Get more from your current account 
With our HSBC Advance Account, you get everything you need for everyday banking and much more. Like money-saving offers. Access to a range of savings accounts. And no monthly account fee. 
To apply, you'll need to be 18+ and qualify for an optional arranged overdraft of at least £1,000. 
How to apply How to apply for HSBC Advance Account 
Here's what you get with your Advance Account 
Access the world with HSBC Global Money 
With an HSBC Advance Account you can apply for an HSBC Global Money Account, letting you convert, hold or send money in 50 currencies across 200 countries and regions worldwide with competitive exchange rates. Add your Global Money debit card to your digital wallet to start using it straight away. Global Money is only available via the HSBC app. Global Non-HSBC fees may apply. Learn moreLearn more about hsbc global money account.
Access our 5.00% AER / gross Regular Saver 
Start saving from just £25 a month with our Regular Saver. Save between £25 and £250 a month for a fixed 12-month term. Withdrawal restrictions apply.1
An optional arranged overdraft 
You'll get a minimum arranged overdraft offer of £1,000 when you open your account. Learn moreLearn more about optional arranged overdrafts.
Get an app you can bank on 
If you always carry your phone, you can always carry your bank. Secure, convenient and in your pocket.
Check your balance in a flash and send money quickly and easily 
Pay in cheques just by scanning them with your phone 
See all your HSBC products in one place, including mortgages and loans 
Pay on the go with Apple Pay, Samsung Pay, Google Pay or your contactless Visa debit card. Limits may apply.22 view footnote 3 
Stay informed and in control 
Our smart money tools help you keep an eye on your spending and stay on top of your finances.
Get instant notifications when money goes in or out of your account33 view footnote 4 
See your spending broken down into categories and set targets to help control it with Spending insights and Monthly budgets 
Budget more easily by seeing how much money you’ll have left after your bills 
Freeze your card temporarily in our app if you can't find it 
Bank online, by phone, in-branch or with our app. Whichever you prefer, we’ve got you covered.44 view footnote 5 
Enjoy a little more from your money 
You’ve worked hard for your money. When you have an Advance Account, we'll help you make it go further.
Start building your savings with our Regular Saver Account, exclusively available to HSBC current account customers 
Get discounts on shopping, dining, travel, experiences and more with our home&Away offers programme 
Withdraw up to £500 per day from cash machines 
Emergency cash transfers up to USD10,000 to any HSBC branch worldwide (funds must be available for the amount being transferred) 
Free international account opening 
Things to know before you apply 
Ready to apply? Before you do, there are a couple of things you should check you're happy with.
About your optional arranged overdraft 
When you open this account, you'll have the option to take out an arranged overdraft.
An arranged overdraft allows you to borrow money (up to an agreed limit) if there’s no money left in your account. This can be useful if you're hit with an unexpected bill, for example.
If a payment would take you past your arranged limit (or if you don’t have one), we may let you borrow using an unarranged overdraft. There's a chance that payments you try to make using an unarranged overdraft may be declined. However, we'll always try to allow essential payments if we can. 
You can apply for an arranged overdraft when you open your account, or at any time later. You can ask to increase, remove or reduce your limit at any time in online or mobile banking, by phone or in-branch. Your new limit can't be less than what you owe.
We report account activity, including overdraft usage, to credit reference agencies. An unarranged overdraft lasting more than 30 days could have a negative impact on your credit rating.
This account comes with a £25 interest-free buffer. If you go overdrawn by more than that, you'll need to pay interest on the amount you borrow at the rate shown.
Overdrafts are designed for short-term borrowing only, and are subject to status.
Overdraft text alerts 
If we’ve got your mobile number, we’ll send you an SMS text alert if you’ve gone overdrawn or we know you’re about to. These alerts are designed to help you manage your overdraft usage and avoid being charged interest.
You can opt out of overdraft text alerts by calling us or asking us in-branch – but remember you’ll be opting out for all your current accounts with us. If you opt out or we don’t have an up-to-date number for you, you could end up paying interest you might otherwise have avoided.
What are the overdraft charges for this account? 
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable)5 on the first £25, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 38.9% APR (variable)66 view footnote 7. Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for the HSBC Advance Account is £20. Further details can be found online at our Overdrafts page.
To find out more, visit our Overdrafts page, where you can find out if you’re eligible for an arranged overdraft and use our overdraft cost calculator.
You may not be eligible for some account features if you remain resident outside the UK.
Who can apply? 
You can apply for an HSBC Advance Account if you:
are 18 or older
are happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK)
qualify for an optional arr\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/advance/
########Top of main content 
Student Bank Account 
The current account that's built for student life 
Stay on top of your money while you study 
Going to uni? Our Student Bank Account helps you boss your budget while you're studying, so you can enjoy student life to the full. With no monthly account fee.
To apply, you'll need to be 18+ and have a confirmed place on a qualifying course at a UK university or college. T&Cs and other eligibility criteria apply. 
How to apply 
New to the UK or a non UK resident? Check out our international student account instead.
Here's what you'll get with your Student Bank Account 
An interest-free arranged overdraft 
Get a guaranteed interest-free limit of up to £1,000 when you apply for a Student Account, regardless of what year you're in, which could rise to £3,000 by year 3. Learn more.
Easy online and mobile banking 
We have a range of tools to help you manage your money on your mobile. You can also bank online, by phone or in a branch1Footnote link 1.
Access our 5.00% AER / gross Regular Saver 
Start saving from just £25 a month with our Regular Saver. Save between £25 and £250 a month for a fixed 12-month term. Withdrawal restrictions apply.2Footnote link 2
Representative example 
0% EAR (variable), representative 0% APR (variable). Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,000.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
Our banking app puts students in control 
Our app makes staying on top of your finances a breeze. Convenient, secure and in your pocket.
Check your balance, make payments and chat to us if you need support 
Manage your arranged overdraft and regular payments like standing orders, Direct Debits and subscriptions 
Pay on the go quickly and securely with Apple Pay, Google Pay or Samsung Pay3Footnote link 3. 
Stay in the know and in control 
Keep an eye on your spending and make budgeting easier with our smart money tools.
Get instant notifications when money goes in or out of your account4Footnote link 4 
See your spending broken down into categories and set targets to help control it with Spending insights and Monthly budgets 
See how much you could have left after bills and regular payments with Balance After Bills 
View your card PIN, temporarily freeze and unfreeze your card, or quickly report it lost or stolen, all via the app 
Get a bit more from your money 
When you have a student account with HSBC, we'll help you save money in more ways than one.
Get discounts with our home&Away offers programme	
Enjoy access to our full range of savings accounts (including some only available to HSBC current account customers) 
Things to know before you apply 
Ready to apply? Before you do, there are a couple of things you should check you're happy with.
About your optional arranged overdraft 
When you apply for this account, you'll have the option to apply for an arranged overdraft.
An arranged overdraft allows you to borrow money (up to an agreed limit) if there’s no money left in your account. This can be useful if you're hit with an unexpected bill, for example.
If a payment would take you past your arranged limit (or if you don’t have one), we may let you borrow using an unarranged overdraft. There's a chance that payments you try to make using an unarranged overdraft may be declined. 
You can apply for an arranged overdraft when you open your account, or at any time later. You can ask to increase, remove or reduce your limit at any time in online or mobile banking, by phone or in a branch. Your new limit can't be less than what you owe.
We report account activity, including overdraft usage, to credit reference agencies. An unarranged overdraft lasting more than 30 days could have a negative impact on your credit rating.
Overdrafts are designed for short-term borrowing only, and are subject to status.
Overdraft text alerts 
If we’ve got your mobile number, we’ll send you an SMS text alert if you’ve gone overdrawn or we know you’re about to. These alerts are designed to help you manage your overdraft usage and avoid being charged interest.
You can opt out of overdraft text alerts by calling us or asking us in a branch – but remember you’ll be opting out for all your current accounts with us. If you opt out or we don’t have an up-to-date number for you, you could end up paying interest you might otherwise have avoided.
What are the overdraft charges for this account? 
We offer an interest-free arranged overdraft of up to £1,000 when you open this account. You can ask for an increase of up to £2,000 in year 2 and £3,000 in year 3, subject to status and how your account has been used.
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable)5Footnote link 5Footnote link 8, ear explanation, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 0% APR (variable)6Footnote link 6. Based on arranged overdraft of £1,000.
Footnote link 9, apr explanation.dfsadsad
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
To find out more, visit our Overdrafts page, where you can find out if you’re eligible for an arranged overdraft and use our overdraft cost calculator.
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a Student Bank Account if you:
are 18 or over
live in the UK and have lived in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man for the past 3 years
have proof you've been accepted onto a qualifying course (eg your 16-digit UCAS code)
have read the important account documents below
If you're returning to do a postgraduate or secondary degree of 1 year or more at a UK university, you must have completed an undergraduate course in the last 3 years.
Proof you've been accepted on a course 
Your 16-digit UCAS status code
You'll need a 16-digit UCAS status code for online application. You should've rec\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/student/
########Top of main content 
HSBC Bank Account for international students 
A simple account to help you manage your money while you're studying in the UK 
Easy everyday banking for students from overseas 
If you've moved to the UK to study, this could be the account for you. It's a simple current account designed to help you do your banking with ease, with no monthly account fee.
How to apply How to apply for an HSBC Bank Account for international students 
Features and benefits 
Bank the way you want 
You can manage your account with our app, on a computer, by phone or in-branch.11 view footnote 1
Mobile payments 
Make payments easily using Google Pay, Apple Pay, Samsung Pay or your contactless Visa debit card (limits may apply).22 view footnote 2
Limited access to credit 
With this account, you won't have access to any HSBC credit cards, loans or mortgages.
Make banking a breeze with our app 
Get just about everything you want from a bank... on your phone. Check your balance, make payments, freeze your card and chat to us if you need support. All it takes is a few taps.
Understand your finances at a glance 
Get an instant notification every time money goes in or out of your account.33 view footnote 3 See your spending broken down into categories and set targets to help control it with Spending insights and Monthly budgets. And use our smart tools to quickly see how much you'll have left after taking care of bills and other essentials.
Get a little more from your money 
Get discounts with our home&Away offers programme 
Enjoy access to our full range of savings accounts (including some only available to HSBC current account customers) 
Exclusive accommodation offers 
Moving abroad to a new place can be exciting, but also stressful at the same time. Access exclusive offers from our accommodation partners to help you or your family settle into a new life studying abroad.
​CBRE helps international students​CBRE helps international students This link will open in a new window and their families looking to rent in the UK, offering a wide range of student rental properties in London and other key UK cities. Through our partnership, qualifying HSBC customers can enjoy exclusive offers, subject to availability. These include discounts on rents, reduced deposit options, cleaning services, and flexible tenancy arrangements. 
Novel Student offers student accommodationNovel Student offers student accommodation This link will open in a new window that provides a sense of belonging. By focusing on service, design, community and wellbeing, students can experience a home away from home. HSBC customers can receive booking incentives, early arrival discounts, free airport transfers and flexible rent payments. 
Charges for using your card outside the UK 
Planning on using your card back home? If you pay for something with your HSBC Visa debit card while you're outside the UK, you’ll be charged a 2.75% fee for making a debit card payment in a foreign currency. As an example, if you spent £100, you'd be charged a fee of £2.75.
If you withdraw money from an ATM, there’s also a fee for a cash withdrawal in foreign currency or from cash machines outside the UK of 2% (minimum £1.75, maximum £5). This is on top of the 2.75% fee above. This means if you withdrew £100, you'd be charged a total of £4.75.
Unless you choose to pay in local currency, any transactions you make will be converted into pound sterling (using the exchange rate set by Visaexchange rate set by Visa This link will open in a new window).
You may like to know that the HSBC Global Money account allows you to spend and send money around the world in multiple currencies, with no HSBC fees. It's available exclusively via the latest version of the HSBC Mobile Banking app, so you could benefit straight away from competitive live exchange rates. There's no extra cost to open or hold the Global Money Account so it's ready for when you need it. Other non-HSBC fees may apply. Eligible HSBC current account customers only.
More about using your card abroad 
Things to know before you apply 
Ready to apply? Before you do, there are a couple of things you should check you're happy with.
About overdrafts 
We won't usually offer you an arranged overdraft when you apply for this account. However, we may do so in some circumstances, depending on your situation.
An arranged overdraft allows you to borrow money (up to an agreed limit) if there’s no money left in your account. This can be useful if you're hit with an unexpected bill, for example.
If a payment would take you past your arranged limit (or if you don’t have one), we may let you borrow using an unarranged overdraft. There's a chance that payments you try to make using an unarranged overdraft may be declined. However, we'll always try to allow essential payments if we can. 
You can apply for an arranged overdraft when you open your account, or at any time later. You can ask to increase, remove or reduce your limit at any time in online or mobile banking, by phone or in-branch. Your new limit can't be less than what you owe.
We report account activity, including overdraft usage, to credit reference agencies. An unarranged overdraft lasting more than 30 days could have a negative impact on your credit rating.
This account comes with a £25 interest-free buffer. If you go overdrawn by more than that, you'll need to pay interest on the amount you borrow at the rate shown.
Overdrafts are designed for short-term borrowing only and are subject to status.
Overdraft text alerts 
If we’ve got your mobile number, we’ll send you an SMS text alert if you’ve gone overdrawn or we know you’re about to. These alerts are designed to help you manage your overdraft usage and avoid being charged interest.
You can opt out of overdraft text alerts by calling us or asking us in-branch – but remember you’ll be opting out for all your current accounts with us. If you opt out or we don’t have an up-to-date number for you, you could end up pa\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/international-student/
########Top of main content 
Children's Bank Accounts 
Our current account for under 18s, with a debit card and an accompanying savings account 
Helping teens and young people take control of their money 
Looking for your first bank account? With HSBC MyMoney, you'll get a fantastic current account for easy day-to-day banking, plus a savings account to help you put something away for the future.
To apply, you'll need to be 11 to 17 years old and live in the UK or EU.
How to apply How to apply for Children's Bank Account 
Here's what you get with your account 
Automatic access to MySavings account 
When you open your MyAccount, you'll get a MySavings account at an interest rate of 5.00% AER / 4.89% gross (on balances up to £3,000).
A contactless Visa debit card 
Make purchases and withdraw cash with your very own contactless debit card, made using recycled plastic.
Online and mobile banking 
Check your balance wherever you are, whenever you want, on your computer or our app.11 view footnote 1
Manage your money on our app 
With our Mobile Banking app, you can manage your account easily with your phone. Check your balance. Get notifications when money goes in or out of your account.22 view footnote 2 Freeze your card if you can't find it. And much more.
Make payments with your phone 
Whatever you're buying, you can pay quickly and securely with Apple Pay, Google Pay or Samsung Pay. You can also pay in a flash using your contactless Visa debit card. Payment limits may apply.33 view footnote 3
Get help whenever you need it 
If you ever need support, we're always on hand. You can chat to us in the app, by phone, by Live Chat on our website, or by popping into one of our branches nationwide.
What your parents might want to know 
Can my child spend more than is in their account? 
No. There's no need to worry about your son or daughter racking up big bills, as they can only spend the money they have in their account.
There may be very rare occasions where we have no option but to allow a payment to leave their account despite a lack of funds. But rest assured that if this ever happens, your child won't have to pay any interest or charges because of it.
Does my child have to have a debit card? 
The account comes with a contactless Visa debit card as standard. However, if you don't want your child to have one (or if they don't want one), please let us know and we can stop one from being sent out. 
Is there a limit on cash withdrawals? 
Yes. Your child can withdraw up to £100 a day, but only if they have enough money in their account. They can't withdraw more money than they have.
What you'll need to apply 
If your parent or guardian is an HSBC customer (not including business accounts) 
You will need:
to be 11 to 17 years old
proof of your identity (either your passport or full UK birth certificate)
to have read the important account documents below
If your parent or guardian isn't a customer 
You will need:
to be 11 to 17 years old
(if you're under 16) proof of identity for you and proof of identity and address for your parent/guardian (eg passports and a utility bill)
(if you're 16 or over) proof of identity for you and proof of address for you or your parent/guardian (eg your passport and a utility bill)
to have read the important account documents below
Important account documents 
MyAccount Fee Information Document (PDF, 375KB) MyAccount Fee Information Document (PDF, 375KB) Download 
HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45 MB) HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45 MB) Download 
Glossary of Terms (PDF, 75 KB) Glossary of Terms (PDF, 75 KB) Download 
Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Download 
UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 106KB) UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 106KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 138 KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 138 KB) Download 
Important notes Important notes Opens in overlay 
Apply for your MyMoney Account now 
If your parent or guardian is an HSBC customer (not including business accounts) 
If your parent or guardian is registered for online banking, they can apply on your behalf online. They will need to have your passport to hand.
Log on and apply Log on and apply This link will open in a new window 
If your parent or guardian isn't a customer 
To apply for an account, please make an appointment at one of our branches. If you're under 16, you'll need your parent or guardian with you to sign the application form.
Remember to bring the documents mentioned under What you'll need to apply.
Find your nearest branch 
Book appointment online Book appointment online This link will open in a new window 
You might also be interested in
Children's savings account
An easy way to save for 7 to 17 year olds. Start saving from just £10, whether it's your pocket money or wages from your job.
Student Bank Account
A current account designed to help you make the most of university life.
Additional information 
1. Find out more about the operating systems our app works onoperating systems our app works on This link will open in a new window.
2. You'll need to opt in to receive instant notifications. You can do this in our app. This feature is currently being rolled out and may not yet be available on all devices.
3. Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/children/
########Top of main content 
HSBC Private Banking 
A bespoke banking experience, with your goals and passions at the heart of everything we do 
Enjoy more of the very best life has to offer 
HSBC Private Banking is more than just a bank account. It's designed to enrich every part of your life through exclusive benefits and experiences. That's why you'll have access to advanced wealth solutions, a dedicated concierge service and an array of luxury lifestyle privileges from our global partners – all with no annual fees.
Wherever your financial journey takes you, your Private Banking Relationship Manager and a team of experts will work together to make the most of your wealth.
You can apply for an HSBC Private Banking Account if you have savings and/or investments of £1.5 million (or USD/EUR equivalent) or more with HSBC in the UK.
HSBC Private Banking 
Find out why HSBC Private Banking is so much more than just a bank account, and unlock new opportunities for your financial future.
Your team of experts 
A team of experts will support you to create bespoke plans to meet your unique banking and wealth needs.
Find out more Find out more about your team of experts 
Exclusive products and services 
Enjoy banking privileges including preferential rates, specialist services and fast-tracked application processes for some of our lending products.
Find out more Find out more about exclusive products and services 
Wealth management 
Planning a new project, thinking about your retirement or your children’s future? We'll provide specialist financial advice on retirement planning, insurance solutions and more.
We offer restricted advice, meaning we only offer limited types of products from a limited number of companies including HSBC. Fees apply for these services. Financial eligibility criteria apply.
Find out more Find out more about wealth management 
Exclusive lifestyle experiences 
You'll have access to a range of luxury services and meaningful experiences covering all aspects of your life – from travelling, fashion and wine to dining at renowned restaurants.
Find out more Find out more about exclusive lifestyle experiences 
Already a Private Banking client? 
For wealth advice, please contact your Private Banking Relationship Manager directly. 
For anything else, you can call the Private Banking team on 03457 70 70 70 from 08:00 to 20:00.
If you haven't already, unlock your exclusive lifestyle benefits with HSBC Private Banking Concierge services.
Using your concierge service 
If you were transferred to HSBC Private Banking from Jade, you can find copies of your important documents here:
Jade to HSBC Private Banking important information (PDF, 80KB) Jade to HSBC Private Banking important information (PDF, 80KB) Download 
HSBC Jade notice of variation (PDF, 82KB) HSBC Jade notice of variation (PDF, 82KB) Download 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/jade/private-bank/
########Top of main content 
Explore our current accounts
Take a look at our full range of current accounts, all with no monthly account fee. To apply, you'll need to be 18 or older (unless otherwise stated).
Everyday banking 
Advance Account 
Easy everyday banking, with access to retail offers and our Regular Saver Account, and no monthly account fee.
You'll need to qualify for an optional arranged overdraft of at least £1,000. Other eligibility criteria and T&Cs apply.
Compare to other accounts 
Premier Account 
Our premium bank account, with no monthly account fee and access to exclusive rates on savings and borrowing.
You must have an income of £75,000+ and another eligible HSBC product; or have £50,000 in savings or investments with us; or hold and qualify for HSBC Premier in another country or region. Other eligibility criteria and T&Cs apply.
Compare to other accounts 
Bank Account 
A straightforward current account, with everything you need to stay on top of your money. 
Compare to other accounts 
Basic Bank Account 
A basic current account for people who don't qualify for one of our other accounts.
You must be 16+ and mustn't continue to hold a UK bank or payment account with another provider.
Compare to other accounts 
Bank Account Pay Monthly 
A simple account with an unarranged overdraft ‘buffer’ for short-term emergency borrowing. 
Compare to other accounts 
Kinetic Business Account 
The business current account that makes banking simpler and faster. Apply in minutes through our app. Most accounts will open within 48 hours.
Subject to eligibility, credit check and T&Cs. Fees apply.
Student and graduate accounts 
Student Bank Account 
A current account designed to help you make the most of student life. 
Compare to other accounts 
International Student Bank Account 
Our current account for international students who have lived in the UK for less than 3 years. 
Compare to other accounts 
Graduate Bank Account 
Our account for life after uni, ideal whether you're starting work or taking some time out.
Available for 2 years after you graduate.
Compare to other accounts 
Accounts for young people 
Children's bank account 
Our current account for 11 to 17 year olds, with a debit card and a linked savings account. 
Compare to other accounts\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/
########Top of main content 
Cash ISA 
Plan for the future, free from UK income tax 
HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA 
Open up your ISA in minutes and be rewarded for your loyalty.
Start with any amount from £1 and deposit up to £20,000 this tax year 
Receive a loyalty rate for 12 months from the date of each payment into your ISA 
Get the same rates when transferring in existing cash ISAs and stocks and shares ISAs 
Make regular payments or lump sum deposits - it's your choice 
Open an HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA today
How to apply How to apply for a HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA 
How to transfer in How to transfer in to a HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA 
Please read the important product information and check eligibility before you apply.
Available to HSBC Current Account customers only.
Reactivating your ISA 
Combining your ISAs 
Key product information 
How it works 
With the Loyalty Cash ISA, we reward you for your loyalty as long as you pay at least £1 into your ISA each year. This exclusive variable loyalty rate applies for 12 months from the date of each payment.
If you make further payments into your ISA, your loyalty rate period will begin again from the date of each payment. Upon the expiry of your Loyalty rate period, you will earn a standard rate of interest until you make a further payment.
You can start your ISA savings with any amount from £1 and you could subscribe up to £20,000 this tax year.
Summary box 
Account name 
Loyalty Cash ISA
What is the interest rate? 
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Account type Loyalty rate Standard rate 
HSBC Premier
	3.20% AER (3.15% tax free)	2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	
Other Current Accounts
	2.85% AER (2.81% tax free)	2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Account type HSBC Premier
	
Loyalty rate 3.20% AER (3.15% tax free)	
Standard rate 2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	
	
Account type Other Current Accounts
	
Loyalty rate 2.85% AER (2.81% tax free)	
Standard rate 2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	
Interest is variable, is calculated daily and credited to the account monthly.
A Loyalty rate applies for 12 months from the date of each payment into your ISA. If you make further payments into your ISA, your Loyalty rate period will begin again from the date of each payment. Upon the expiry of your Loyalty rate period, you will earn a standard rate of interest until you make a further payment.
Can HSBC change the interest rate? 
Yes, we can change the interest rate on this account in line with the account’s Terms and Conditions.
What would the estimated balance be after 12 months based on a £1,000 deposit? 
The estimated balance after 12 months based on a £1,000 deposit would be as follows: 
Initial deposit
Rate Interest rate Balance at the end of 12 months 
£1,000	HSBC Premier
Loyalty rate	3.20% AER (3.15% tax free)	£1,032.00	
£1,000	Other Current Accounts
Loyalty rate	2.85% AER (2.81% tax free)	£1,028.50	
£1,000	Standard rates for all accounts	2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	£1,025.00	
The estimated balance after 12 months based on a £1,000 deposit would be as follows: 
Initial deposit
£1,000	
Rate HSBC Premier
Loyalty rate	
Interest rate 3.20% AER (3.15% tax free)	
Balance at the end of 12 months £1,032.00	
	
Initial deposit
£1,000	
Rate Other Current Accounts
Loyalty rate	
Interest rate 2.85% AER (2.81% tax free)	
Balance at the end of 12 months £1,028.50	
	
Initial deposit
£1,000	
Rate Standard rates for all accounts	
Interest rate 2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	
Balance at the end of 12 months £1,025.00	
For the purpose of this calculation, it is assumed:
initial deposit is £1,000
no further deposits
no withdrawals
no change to the interest rate during the 12 months

Projection provided for illustrative purposes only and does not take into account individual circumstances.
How do I open & manage my account? 
Eligibility:
aged 16 years or over
be resident in the UK for tax purposes, or if not so resident, be a Crown employee serving overseas, or be married to, or in a civil partnership with, such a person
hold an HSBC current account

How to open the account:
this account can only be opened in a sole name
open an account via online banking, in branch or by post
or you can transfer current and/or previous years subscriptions by completing an ISA transfer form

Minimum/Maximum Balance:
a minimum of £1 must be deposited to open the account
the maximum amount you can deposit is subject to annual subscription limits
the annual subscription limit for the current tax year is £20,000. This can be saved in a cash ISA, a stocks and shares ISA, an innovative finance ISA or a lifetime ISA with either the same or different providers
no maximum balance
How to manage the account:
once opened, the account can be managed via online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app, where you can chat to us 24/7
you can also manage the account via Telephone Banking or in branch
Can I withdraw money? 
Yes, you have instant access to your account. You can make as many fee free withdrawals as you like. However, once you’ve paid in the maximum annual subscription limit, any amount withdrawn cannot be replaced until the following tax year. If you withdraw funds from your ISA, you may lose the associated tax benefits.
Additional Information 
A 30 day cancellation period applies to this account.
Interest is paid tax-free, that is free from UK Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax.
The value of tax benefits described depends on individual circumstances. The tax treatment of ISAs could change in the future.
Subscribing to a cash ISA may affect your eligibility to subscribe to a Help to Buy: ISA.
Definitions
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. This shows you what the gross rate would be if interest were paid and compounded each year
tax free, free from personal liability to any UK Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax
ISA stands for Individual Savings Account
Rates correct as at 10 August 2023
How to apply 
Are you eligible? 
To open an HSBC Loyalty ISA, you need to be:
aged 16 or over
resident in\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/cash-isa/
########Top of main content 
Online Bonus Savings Account 
Savings, with an extra reward from us 
HSBC Online Bonus Saver 
Earn bonus interest every month you don't make a withdrawal. 
Start saving with just £1. That's all you need to open an account and there is no maximum balance on this account. Please note that accounts are limited to one per customer. 
Get a higher rate on balances of up to £50,000. If you have more than £50,000 in your account, we pay a lower interest rate on the amount above that – see our interest rates. 
Bonus interest, calculated daily. When you qualify for a bonus interest payment, it's calculated on the daily balance and paid monthly. 
Open your account online only. Once opened, you can manage it online, on the app, using phone banking or in any of our branches. That means you can access your funds any time you need them. 
Open an Online Bonus Saver today
Apply for an Online Bonus Saver Apply for an Online Bonus Saver for an Online Bonus Saver 
Please read the important product information and check eligibility before you apply.
Summary box 
What is the account name? 
Online Bonus Saver
What is the interest rate? 
The current interest rates are shown below 
Balance Standard Rate Interest Rate including bonus 
Up to £50,000	2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	4.00% AER / 3.93% gross	
Over £50,000	2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	2.30% AER / 2.28% gross	
The current interest rates are shown below 
Balance Up to £50,000	
Standard Rate 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	
Interest Rate including bonus 4.00% AER / 3.93% gross	
	
Balance Over £50,000	
Standard Rate 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	
Interest Rate including bonus 2.30% AER / 2.28% gross	
Interest is calculated daily and credited to the account monthly.
The standard rate of interest is paid in any month where a withdrawal is made or you close your account.
The interest rate including bonus is paid in any month where you don't make a withdrawal or don't close your account.
Balances up to £50,000 will earn the higher rate of interest. Only the part of the balance above £50,000 will earn the lower rate of interest.
Can HSBC change the interest rate? 
Yes, we can change the interest rate on this account in line with the account's Terms and Conditions.
What would the estimated balance be after 12 months based on a range of deposits? 
The estimated balance after 12 months based on a range of deposits would be as follows: 
Initial Deposit Rate Type Interest Rate Balance at end of 12 months 
£1,000	Standard Rate	2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	£1,020.00	
£1,000	Interest rate including bonus
	4.00% AER / 3.93% gross	£1,040.00	
£60,000	Standard Rate
	2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	£61,200.00	
£60,000	Interest rate including bonus
	4.00% AER / 3.93% gross on first £50,000 then 2.30% AER / 2.28% gross on any balance over £50,000	£62,230.00	
The estimated balance after 12 months based on a range of deposits would be as follows: 
Initial Deposit £1,000	
Rate Type Standard Rate	
Interest Rate 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	
Balance at end of 12 months £1,020.00	
	
Initial Deposit £1,000	
Rate Type Interest rate including bonus
	
Interest Rate 4.00% AER / 3.93% gross	
Balance at end of 12 months £1,040.00	
	
Initial Deposit £60,000	
Rate Type Standard Rate
	
Interest Rate 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	
Balance at end of 12 months £61,200.00	
	
Initial Deposit £60,000	
Rate Type Interest rate including bonus
	
Interest Rate 4.00% AER / 3.93% gross on first £50,000 then 2.30% AER / 2.28% gross on any balance over £50,000	
Balance at end of 12 months £62,230.00	
For the purpose of this calculation, it is assumed:
initial deposit of either £1,000 or £60,000
no additional deposits
no withdrawal made in any month for the interest rate including bonus calculation
a withdrawal made in every month for the standard rate calculation (amounts withdrawn not shown for illustrative purposes)
no change to the interest rate during the 12 months
Projection provided for illustrative purposes only and does not take into account individual circumstances.
How do I open & manage my account? 
Eligibility:
aged 16 years or over
hold an HSBC current or savings account
able to manage your account online only
How to open the account:
this account can only be opened in a sole name
open an account via Online Banking only
Minimum/Maximum Balance:
a minimum of £1 must be deposited to open the account
there is no maximum balance on this account
How to manage the account
once opened, the account can be managed via online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app where you can chat to us 24/7 
you can also manage the account via Telephone Banking or in branch
Can I withdraw money? 
Yes, you have instant access to your account. However if you do make a withdrawal, you’ll receive the standard rate of interest (currently 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross) for that month.
Additional Information 
A 14 day cancellation period applies to this account.
We do not deduct tax from any interest paid to you.
Tax benefits depend on individual circumstances and could change in the future.

Definitions
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. This shows you what the gross rate would be if interest were paid and compounded each year.
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted.
Rates correct as at 10 August 2023
How to apply 
Are you eligible? 
To be eligible for an Online Bonus Saver, you must be:
an existing HSBC customer 
aged 16 or over
able to manage the account in online banking
If you already have an Online Bonus Saver, you can’t apply for another. Accounts can be in sole names only.
Apply online 
If you are an existing HSBC customer with a current account or other savings account and are registered for online banking you can apply online in minutes.
If you have multiple tax residencies or are a non UK tax resident you cannot complete your application online, please telephone us to open an Online Bonus Saver account.
Log on to apply Log on to apply for Online Bonus Saver This link will open in a new window 
No\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/online-bonus-saver/
########Top of main content 
Regular Savings Account 
A great way to get into the savings habit 
HSBC Regular Saver 
When you have some extra cash to set aside each month, our Regular Saver is a great way to help build your savings. You can save up to £3,000 at a 5.00% interest rate that’s fixed for 12 months. 
Start saving from just £25. Set up a standing order from your HSBC account to pay between £25 and £250 into your Regular Saver each month. If your regular payments are less than £250 a month, you can carry your allowance over, paying more in later months (up to a total of £3,000). 
Keep your money saved for a year. To benefit from the rate on this account, you won’t be able to make partial withdrawals at any time during the 12 months. You can choose to close your account early, but if you do, you’ll receive interest at our Flexible Saver rate. 
Receive a lump sum. At the end of 12 months, we'll transfer your balance into your Flexible Saver or Premier Savings account. If you have more than one of these, we'll choose whichever pays the best interest. If you don't have any, we'll convert your Regular Saver to a Flexible Saver for you. 
Open a Regular Saver today
How to apply How to apply for a HSBC Regular Saver 
Please read the important product information and check eligibility before you apply.
5.00% AER / gross
Regular Saver coming to an end?
If you’re thinking about what to do next, here are some maturity options. Depending on your circumstances, you could open a new Regular Saver, consider other savings products, repay debts or explore investing. 
Calculate how much interest you could earn
Select an amount between £25 and £250 to see how much interest you could receive over a 12 month period
Monthly contribution
Enter an amount between £25 and £250
This is a Monthly contribution fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
25
GBP 25
GBP 250
Summary
Total saved over 12 months
GBP 300.00
Interest rate
5.00% AER/Gross
Total balance after 12 months
GBP 308.13
How to apply
For the purpose of this calculation, it is assumed that 12 monthly deposits are made as shown, and no withdrawals are made.
Projection provided for illustrative purposes only and does not take into account individual circumstances. The figures are approximate and you may receive slightly more or less than is shown.
Summary box 
What is the account name? 
Regular Saver
What is the interest rate? 
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Balance
Interest rate 
All balances	5.00% AER (5.00% Gross)	
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Balance
All balances	
Interest rate 5.00% AER (5.00% Gross)	
Interest is calculated daily and is credited at the end of the 12 month fixed term.
Can HSBC change the interest rate? 
No, once your account is opened the rate will remain fixed for the 12 month term.
What would the estimated balance be after 12 months based on 12 regular monthly deposits of £25 and £250? 
The estimated balance after 12 months based on 12 regular monthly deposits of £25 and £250 would be as follows: 
Monthly Deposits Interest rate Total deposits
after 12 months Balance at end of 12 months 
£25	5.00% AER (5.00% Gross)
	£300	£308.13	
£250	5.00% AER (5.00% Gross)
	£3,000	£3081.25	
The estimated balance after 12 months based on 12 regular monthly deposits of £25 and £250 would be as follows: 
Monthly Deposits £25	
Interest rate 5.00% AER (5.00% Gross)
	
Total deposits
after 12 months £300	
Balance at end of 12 months £308.13	
	
Monthly Deposits £250	
Interest rate 5.00% AER (5.00% Gross)
	
Total deposits
after 12 months £3,000	
Balance at end of 12 months £3081.25	
For the purpose of this calculation, it is assumed:-
12 monthly deposits of £25 or £250
no withdrawals
no change to the interest rate during the 12 months
Projection provided for illustrative purposes only and does not take into account individual circumstances.
How do I open & manage my account? 
Eligibility:
you must be aged 18 years or over
you must have one of the following HSBC current accounts: HSBC Premier, HSBC Advance, Bank Account, Bank Account Pay Monthly, HSBC Student Bank Account or Graduate Bank Account which you must maintain for the 12 month duration
How to open the account:
This account can be opened in sole or joint names.
open a sole account via online banking or in a branch
open a joint account via phone banking or in a branch
Minimum/Maximum Balance:
the minimum deposit in month 1 is £25
the maximum balance is £3,000 at the end of the 12 month term
Regular Deposits:
regular deposits must be made by standing order each month
the minimum monthly deposit is £25 per month
the maximum monthly deposit is £250 per month
if you don't pay in the maximum allowed in any month, you can carry over the unused subscriptions and catch up in future months
How to manage the account
once opened, the account can be managed via online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app, where you can chat to us 24/7
you can also manage the account via Telephone Banking or in branch
Can I withdraw money? 
No, you can not make partial withdrawals.
You can close your account before the end of the 12 month term however you will receive interest up to the date of closure at our Flexible Saver rate.
At the end of 12 months we'll transfer your savings into your Flexible Saver or Premier Savings. If you have more than one of these accounts we'll pay your savings into the account which pays the best interest. And if you don't have any of these accounts, we'll convert your Regular Saver to a Flexible Saver.
Additional Information 
A 14 day cancellation period applies to this account.
We do not deduct tax from any interest paid to you.
Tax benefits depend on individual circumstances and could change in the future.
Definitions
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. This shows you what the gross rate would be if interest were paid and compounded each year.
Gross is the rate of interest paid bef\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/regular-saver/
########Top of main content 
Easy access savings accounts 
Keep your savings within easy reach 
Help your money grow. Get it when you want 
Want to save but don't fancy locking your money away for a year or more? One of our easy access savings accounts could be just what you're after. Open an account today and enjoy instant access to your cash.
Why choose an HSBC easy access savings account? 
Earn tax-free interest 
The first £1,000 you earn in interest each tax year is tax-free if you're a basic rate taxpayer, so more stays in your pocket.11 View footnote 1
Get your money when you need it 
No waiting. No fuss. Withdraw your money easily online or at a Full Service or Cash Service branch.
Manage your account easily on the go 
Use online banking or our Mobile Banking app to manage your account wherever and whenever you want.
Get started from just £1 
Making it easy to start saving with however much money you've got.
Our easy access savings accounts 
Online Bonus Saver
Get a higher interest rate in any months you don't make a withdrawal. For existing HSBC customers only. You can only open this account online.
Bonus rate up to £50,000: 4.00% AER / 3.93% gross
Bonus rate over £50,000: 2.30% AER / 2.28% gross
Standard rate: 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross
Minimum deposit: £1
Interest is paid monthly and the rate is variable.
Flexible Saver
Our most flexible savings account. Save and make withdrawals as often as you like, and access your account the way you want.
Interest rate: 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross
Minimum deposit: £1
Interest is paid monthly and the rate is variable.
Premier Savings
Help your money work harder with our flexible savings account exclusively for HSBC Premier customers.
Interest rate: 2.25% AER / 2.23% gross
Minimum deposit: £1
Interest is paid monthly and the rate is variable.
Related articles 
What is the Personal Savings Allowance?
Find out how you can earn tax-free interest thanks to this handy allowance.
How to save money
Follow our 5 simple steps to help you save money more easily.
ISAs vs savings accounts
What’s the best way for you to save? Explore the options and decide for yourself.	
You might also be interested in 
Other savings accounts
Explore our full range, including cash ISAs and fixed-term savings accounts.
Savings goal calculator
See how long it might take to save for your next big purchase or adventure.
Take a look at investing
Could investing help you get more from your money? You may get back less than you invest. You should aim to invest for 5 years or more.
Additional information 
AER stands for annual equivalent rate. This shows you what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and compounded once each year.
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted.
	
1. Thanks to the Personal Savings Allowance (PSA), basic rate taxpayers can earn up to £1,000 in interest each tax year without having to pay income tax on it. Higher rate (40%) taxpayers can earn up to £500 interest without paying income tax on it, while additional rate (45%) taxpayers aren't entitled to any PSA at all. The value of any tax benefits depends upon your individual circumstances. Tax rules may change in future.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/easy-access-accounts/
########Top of main content 
Fixed Rate Savings Account 
Make your plans with confidence 
Fixed Rate Saver 
With our Fixed Rate Saver, you can put your money to work, safe in the knowledge of how much interest it’s going to earn you. Just choose the length of your term, deposit between £2,000 and £1 million and prepare to earn interest at a fixed rate. 
Choose a 1-year or 2-year term, and deposit any amount from £2,000 to £1 million 
Get a fixed rate of interest for the duration of the term. Earn between 4.30% AER / gross and 4.00% AER / gross, depending on the term you choose 
Reinvest your savings. Before the end of the term, we'll write to you to ask you if you want to withdraw your money, start a new Fixed Rate Saver or discuss your options 
Interest paid directly into your account. We’ll pay your interest into the HSBC account you used to pay your initial deposit 
Know exactly what you'll get. Your interest rate remains fixed throughout the term, so you’ll know in advance exactly how much interest you'll earn 
Close early if you need to. Provided the deposit is under £50,000, you can close the account early for a fee of 90 days’ interest. Do bear in mind that depending on when the withdrawal is made, you may get back less than you originally invested. If the deposit is £50,000 or over, you can't close your account or withdraw any money until the end of the deposit term 
Apply for a Fixed Rate Saver
Know how much you’ll earn right from the start
How to apply How to apply for a Fixed Rate Saver Bond 
Please read the important product information and check eligibility before you apply.
Looking to reinvest?
How to reinvest How to reinvest in a Fixed Rate Saver Bond 
Fixed Rate Saver coming to an end?
If you’re thinking about what to do next, here are some maturity options. Depending on your circumstances, you could put your money into a new Fixed Rate Saver, consider other savings products, repay debts or explore investing. 
Calculate how much interest you could earn
Enter the amount you'd like to save, select the fixed term option, and see how much interest you could receive
How much would you like to save?
Enter the amount you'd like to save as a one-off lump sum
GBP
2,000
How long would you like to save for?
Choose a 1-year or 2-year fixed term
1
1
2
Summary
Total interest earned
GBP 86.00
Total balance saved
GBP 2,086.00
Interest rate
4.30% AER/Gross
Apply now
For this calculation it's assumed that no money is taken out before the end of the fixed term.
The total interest earned is an example only and doesn't take into account individual circumstances.
Summary box 
What is the account name? 
Fixed Rate Savings
What is the interest rate? 
See current interest rates below: 
Term Deposit Interest rate 
2 years	£2,000+	4.00% AER / gross	
1 year	£2,000+
	4.30% AER / gross	
See current interest rates below: 
Term 2 years	
Deposit £2,000+	
Interest rate 4.00% AER / gross	
	
Term 1 year	
Deposit £2,000+
	
Interest rate 4.30% AER / gross	
interest is calculated daily and credited either monthly or annually. 
if you choose monthly interest, we'll pay interest on the monthly anniversary of your account being opened. If you choose annual interest, we'll pay it on the anniversary of your account being opened.
The interest is paid directly into your HSBC current or savings account - the same one you use to pay in your initial deposit.
Can HSBC change the interest rate? 
No, once your account is opened the rate will remain fixed for the duration of your fixed rate period.
What would the estimated balance be at the end of the term based on a range of deposits? 
The estimated balance at the end of the term based on a range of deposits would be as follows: 
Term Deposit Interest rate Balance at end of term 
2 years	£2,000	4.00% AER / gross	£2,160.00	
1 year	£2,000
	4.30% AER / gross	£2,086.00	
The estimated balance at the end of the term based on a range of deposits would be as follows: 
Term 2 years	
Deposit £2,000	
Interest rate 4.00% AER / gross	
Balance at end of term £2,160.00	
	
Term 1 year	
Deposit £2,000
	
Interest rate 4.30% AER / gross	
Balance at end of term £2,086.00	
For the purpose of these calculations, it is assumed:
initial deposit of £2,000
no further deposits
no withdrawals
no change to the interest rate during the fixed term
Projection provided for illustrative purposes only and does not take into account individual circumstances.
How do I open & manage my account? 
Eligibility:
aged 16 or over
have an HSBC current account or savings account (excluding an ISA, Regular Savings Account or Basic Bank Account) which you must maintain for the duration of the fixed term
How to open the account:
this account can be opened in sole or joint names
open an account via Online Banking or in branch
Minimum/Maximum Balance:
only one deposit per Fixed Rate Saver
the minimum deposit is £2,000
the maximum deposit is £1,000,000
How to manage the account
once opened, the account can be managed via online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app, where you can chat to us 24/7
you can also manage the account via Telephone Banking or in branch
Can I withdraw money? 
Deposits of £50,000 or over: You can't close the product or withdraw any money until the end of your fixed rate period.
Deposits under £50,000: You can withdraw all of the money and close the product early, for a fee of 90 days interest. You can't withdraw part of the money.
At the end of the fixed rate period your account will be closed and your funds and interest paid into the account they came from unless you have asked us to reinvest some/all of your funds.
Additional Information 
There is no cancellation period with a new Fixed Rate Saver. However, a 14 day cooling off period does apply for reinvestments.
We do not deduct tax from any interest paid to you.
Tax benefits depend on individual circumstances and could change in the future.
Definitions
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. This shows you what the gross rate would be if interest were p\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/fixed-rate/
########Top of main content 
Children's Savings Account 
A great way to get into the savings habit 
MySavings / Premier MySavings 
It’s never too early to learn how to handle money wisely, and an HSBC MySavings / Premier MySavings Account is the first step on that road. It’s open to anyone aged 7 to 17. 
Start saving from just £10
Whether it’s your pocket money or the wages from your job. 
Get your own HSBC Visa Debit Card
On your 11th birthday, we'll open a MyAccount / Premier MyAccount for you, complete with your own HSBC Visa Debit Card to shop in stores, online or use at cash machines. 
Manage your account the easy way
From the age of 11 you'll be able to access online and mobile banking, where you can chat with us 24/7.
Take your money out at the bank 
You can use your cash book to withdraw money from your savings account. But keep in mind that if you're under 11, you'll need your parent or guardian's signature to withdraw £50 or more. Please check our branch finder for your nearest Full Service or Cash Service branch offering counter services. 
Premier MySavings account 
Children and grandchildren of Premier (including retained Jade benefits) and Private Banking Account customers can benefit from a Premier MySavings account with access to additional product benefits. At the age of 11, we'll also open a Premier MyAccount for you. 
Open a MySavings account today
You'll need your parent or guardian when you're ready to apply.
How to apply How to apply for an HSBC MySavings account 
Please read the important product information and check eligibility before you apply.
5.00% AER / 4.89% gross
On balances up to £3,000
2.25% AER / 2.23% gross
On balances over £3,000
Interest rates variable and paid monthly.
Summary box 
What's the account name? 
MySavings / HSBC Premier MySavings
What is the interest rate? 
The current interest rates are shown below 
Balance Interest Rate 
Up to £3,000	5.00% AER (4.89% gross)	
Over £3,000
	2.25% AER (2.23% gross)	
The current interest rates are shown below 
Balance Up to £3,000	
Interest Rate 5.00% AER (4.89% gross)	
	
Balance Over £3,000
	
Interest Rate 2.25% AER (2.23% gross)	
Interest is calculated daily and credited to the account monthly.
Balances up to £3,000 will earn the higher rate of interest. Only the part of the balance above £3,000 will earn the lower rate of interest.
Can HSBC change the interest rate? 
Yes, the interest rate is variable. We can change the interest rate on this account, in line with the account's Terms and Conditions.
What would the estimated balance be after 12 months based on a range of deposits? 
The estimated balance at the end of a 12-month term based on a range of deposits would be as follows: 
Initial Deposit Interest Rate Balance at the end of 12 months 
£1,000	5.00% AER (4.89% gross)	£1,050.00	
£5,000	5.00% AER (4.89% gross) on first £3,000 then 2.25% AER (2.23% gross) on any balance above £3,000	£5,195.00	
The estimated balance at the end of a 12-month term based on a range of deposits would be as follows: 
Initial Deposit £1,000	
Interest Rate 5.00% AER (4.89% gross)	
Balance at the end of 12 months £1,050.00	
	
Initial Deposit £5,000	
Interest Rate 5.00% AER (4.89% gross) on first £3,000 then 2.25% AER (2.23% gross) on any balance above £3,000	
Balance at the end of 12 months £5,195.00	
For the purpose of these calculations, it is assumed:-
initial deposit of either £1,000 or £5,000
no further deposits
no withdrawals
no change to the interest rate during the 12 months
Projection provided for illustrative purposes only and does not take into account individual circumstances.
How do I open & manage my account? 
Eligibility:
aged between 7 to 17 years old
How to open the account:
this account can only be opened in a sole name
if your parent or guardian banks with us, they can apply on your behalf through online banking
if your parent or guardian doesn't bank with us, you'll need to visit a HSBC branch with them to open the account
Minimum/Maximum Balance:
a minimum of £10 must be deposited to open an account
there's no maximum balance
How to manage the account
once opened you can manage your account in branch or via Telephone Banking. If you have a MyAccount, you can also manage your account via Online Banking or via the HSBC Mobile Banking App where you can chat to us 24/7
Can I withdraw money? 
Yes, you have instant access to your account. You can make as many fee free withdrawals as you like.
If you’re under 11, MySavings comes with a Cash Book. You can use it to pay in and take money out, at a Full Service or Cash Service branch offering counter services. If you want to take out more than £50, or move it to another account, you’ll need your parent or guardian’s permission and their signature.
Additional Information 
A 14 day cancellation period applies to this account.
We do not deduct tax from any interest paid to you.
Tax benefits depend on individual circumstances and could change in the future.
Definitions
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. This shows you what the gross rate would be if interest were paid and compounded each year
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted.




Rates correct as at 10 August 2023
How to apply 
You can apply for a MySavings Account or Premier MySavings Account if:
you're 7 to 17
you can provide proof of your identity if your parent or guardian is an HSBC customer
you and your parent or guardian can provide proof of identity and address
you can provide proof of identity and address if your parent or guardian isn't an HSBC customer and you're over 16
in addition, if your parent, guardian or grandparent is an HSBC Premier (including retained Jade benefits) or Private Banking Account customers you can apply for a Premier MySavings Account
If your parent or guardian is a personal HSBC customer 
Your parent or guardian can apply for you quickly and easily in minutes online. They'll need your valid passport to hand.
We’re busier than usual at the\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/mysavings/
########Top of main content 
Using your card outside the UK 
Pack your card for your next adventure 
Take your HSBC cards with you 
Heading somewhere nice this year? You can use your HSBC debit and credit cards easily outside the UK, the same way you would at home.
At a glance 
Enjoy flexibility and convenience 
You can use your debit or credit card at shops, restaurants and cash machines while you’re away. Fees may apply when using your card outside the UK. 
Keep track of your holiday spending 
Switch on notifications in mobile banking so you know when money goes in or out of your account. 
Relax knowing you can freeze your card 
You can freeze it in mobile banking or online banking – and unfreeze it if it turns up again.
	
	
*Fees apply when using your card outside the UK. Please see our frequently asked questions for full details.
Going abroad?
You don't need to notify us. Just make sure your contact details are up to date, so we can get in touch if there's an issue.
Update now 
Top tip – it pays to go local 
If you’re using your card outside the UK in shops, bars or restaurants and are given the choice of paying in pounds or local currency, you could consider choosing local currency. 
If you choose to pay in local currency, you’ll avoid dynamic currency conversion fees and in most cases will get a better exchange rate.
Frequently asked questions
How do I choose which cards to take with me? 
Using your cards outside the UK, in combination with your travel money, gives you more flexibility when managing your holiday money.
A debit card allows you to withdraw cash at cash machines and pay for purchases plus keep a track of your spending via online, mobile or telephone banking.
Credit cards can be useful when purchasing more expensive items because of your rights under the Consumer Credit Act 1975. However, please note fees and charges apply.
What are the debit card fees outside the UK? 
Debit card fees abroad 
Account Fees for a debit card payment in a foreign currency Fees for a cash withdrawal in foreign currency, or from a cash machine outside the UK 
Global Money Account	0.00%	0.00%	
HSBC Premier Account (including HSBC Jade)
HSBC Premier MyAccount
	2.75%	2.75%	
All other accounts	2.75%	2.75% plus a fee of 2% (minimum £1.75, Maximum £5.00).	
Debit card fees abroad 
Account Global Money Account	
Fees for a debit card payment in a foreign currency 0.00%	
Fees for a cash withdrawal in foreign currency, or from a cash machine outside the UK 0.00%	
	
Account 
HSBC Premier Account (including HSBC Jade)
HSBC Premier MyAccount
	
Fees for a debit card payment in a foreign currency 2.75%	
Fees for a cash withdrawal in foreign currency, or from a cash machine outside the UK 2.75%	
	
Account All other accounts	
Fees for a debit card payment in a foreign currency 2.75%	
Fees for a cash withdrawal in foreign currency, or from a cash machine outside the UK 2.75% plus a fee of 2% (minimum £1.75, Maximum £5.00).	
Visa converts transactions into sterling using the Visa Exchange Rate applicable on the day it processes the transaction (the rates are provided by Visa and subject to change). This date may be different to the day on which the transaction took place. Historic exchange rate information is available at www.visaeurope.comwww.visaeurope.com This link will open in a new window.
Where you choose to make the payment / withdrawal in sterling, then HSBC will not make any conversion and this will be done by either the retailer or self-service machine owner. Some cash machine owners may apply an additional charge for withdrawals and this will be advised at the time of the withdrawal.
What are the credit card fees abroad? 
Credit card fees outside the UK 
Purchases Withdrawals More information 
HSBC Credit Card	Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	Cash Fee 2.99% (minimum £3.00)

Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	Find out more	
HSBC Premier Credit Card	Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	Cash Fee 2.99% (minimum £3.00)

Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	Find out more	
HSBC Student Credit Card	Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	Cash Fee 2.99% (minimum £3.00)

Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	Find out more	
Credit card fees outside the UK 
HSBC Credit Card	
Purchases Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	
Withdrawals Cash Fee 2.99% (minimum £3.00)

Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	
More information Find out more	
	
HSBC Premier Credit Card	
Purchases Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	
Withdrawals Cash Fee 2.99% (minimum £3.00)

Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	
More information Find out more	
	
HSBC Student Credit Card	
Purchases Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	
Withdrawals Cash Fee 2.99% (minimum £3.00)

Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.99%	
More information Find out more	
When making a payment or withdrawing cash in a foreign currency (non-sterling) you may be asked if you want to pay in Sterling or the local currency. By selecting to pay in the local currency, HSBC will make the conversion using the relevant payment scheme exchange rate applied on the day the conversion is made.
Where you choose to make the payment / withdrawal in sterling, then HSBC will not make any conversion and this will be done by either the retailer or self-service machine owner. Some cash machine owners may apply an additional charge for withdrawals and this will be advised at the time of the withdrawal
How much will I be charged paying in local currency in the European Economic Area (EEA)? 
Travelling in the European Economic Area (EEA)?11 View footnote 1 See how paying in local currency on your HSBC credit or debit card compares to the European Central Bank (ECB)’s latest reference rates.
This shows the percentage difference between the ECB reference rate and your HSBC card rates, depending on how you pay. You can find out more about these fees above.
1European Economic Area where you can pay in currency includes Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hunga\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/using-your-card-abroad/
########Top of main content 
Explore our savings accounts
Take a look at our full range of savings accounts. Whether you want to save a lump sum or a little each month, we've got an account for you.
Compare savings accounts from HSBC 
Fixed Rate Savings Account 
Save for 1 or 2 years. For current account and savings account customers only (not including Basic Bank Account, Loyalty Cash ISA or Regular Saver).
Key information
1-year term: 4.30% AER/gross
2-year term: 4.00% AER/gross
Instant access: No
Interest is paid monthly or yearly and the rate is fixed.
	
Compare to other savings accounts Compare to other savings accounts Compare Fixed Rate Savings Account to other savings accounts 
Online Bonus Savings Account 
Get a higher interest rate in any months you don't make a withdrawal. For existing HSBC customers only. You can only open this account online.

Key information
Bonus rate up to £50,000: 4.00% AER / 3.93% gross
Bonus rate over £50,000: 2.30% AER / 2.28% gross
Standard rate: 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross
Instant access: Yes

Interest is paid monthly and the rate is variable.
Compare to other savings accounts Compare to other savings accounts Compare Online Bonus Savings Account to other savings accounts 
Regular Savings Account 
Save £25 to £250 every month with our 12-month fixed rate account. For current account customers only (not including Basic Bank Account).1Footnote link 1

Key information
Interest rate: 5.00% AER/gross
Instant access: No (restrictions apply)

Interest is paid after 12 months and the rate is fixed.
Compare to other savings accounts Compare to other savings accounts Compare Regular Savings Account to other savings accounts 
Flexible Savings Account 
Our most flexible savings account. Deposit money and make withdrawals as often as you like, and access your account the way you want.

Key information
Interest rate: 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross
Instant access: Yes

Interest is paid monthly and the rate is variable.
Compare to other savings accounts Compare to other savings accounts Compare Flexible Savings Account to other savings accounts 
Children's Savings Account 
An easy way to save for 7 to 17 year olds. Start saving from just £10, whether it's your pocket money or wages from your job.

Key information
Up to £3,000: 5.00% AER / 4.89% gross
Over £3,000: 2.25% AER / 2.23% gross
Instant access: Yes

Interest is paid monthly and the rate is variable. 
Compare to other savings accounts Compare to other savings accounts Compare Children's Savings Account to other savings accounts 
Loyalty Cash ISA 
Lock in a loyalty interest rate for 12 months each time you pay into your account. For current account customers only.

Key information
Loyalty rate: 2.85% AER (2.81% tax free)
Premier customer loyalty rate: 3.20% AER (3.15% tax free)
Standard rate: 2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)
Instant access: Yes

Interest is paid monthly and the rate is variable.
Compare to other savings accounts Compare to other savings accounts Compare Loyalty Cash Savings Account to other savings accounts 
Premier Savings Account 
Help your money work harder with our flexible savings account exclusively for HSBC Premier customers.

Key information
Interest rate: 2.25% AER / 2.23% gross
Instant access: Yes

Interest is paid monthly and the rate is variable. 
Compare to other savings accounts Compare to other savings accounts Compare Premier Savings Account to other savings accounts 
Additional information 
AER stands for annual equivalent rate. This shows you what the interest rate would be if interest was paid and compounded once each year.
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted.
Tax-free means you don't have to pay UK income tax or capital gains tax on any interest or returns you earn.
Save between £25 and £250 a month by standing order from your HSBC current account for a fixed term of 12 months. If you do not save £250 in any given month you can carry over any unused subscription to following months. Interest is calculated on the daily balance on your Regular Saver and we’ll pay this into your Regular Saver on the anniversary of your account being opened. For example, if you saved £250 every month for 12 months a total of £3,000 would be paid in to your account during the 12 month term. At 5.00% AER/gross you would earn approximately £81.25 interest (gross). Partial withdrawals are not allowed during the 12 month term. If you close your Regular Saver before the anniversary, we’ll pay interest at the same rate as we would apply to an equivalent amount held in our Flexible Saver account. You can only hold one Regular Saver account at any time. All credit interest will be paid gross.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/
########Top of main content 
Global Money 
Convert, send or spend multiple currencies around the world, with no HSBC fees. 
Access the world with one account 
Spend, send and manage your currencies in one place using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Join the many customers who are benefitting from HSBC UK's best exchange rates, and access to more than 200 countries and regions worldwide.
Spend money at home or abroad using your Global Money debit card, or simply add it to your digital wallet for spending free from HSBC fees. Non-HSBC fees may apply.
Your currency balances are protected up to £85,000 by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Available exclusively via the latest version of the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Check eligibility and apply Check eligibility and apply for Global Money Account 
Here's what you get with a Global Money Account 
Send money internationally without any HSBC or intermediary fees 
Send money abroad via the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app with a Global Money Account with no HSBC or intermediary bank fees 
Send money free from HSBC fees in more than 50 currencies to 200 countries and regions with Global Money transfers. You can also hold up to 18 currencies securely to use at any time 
Live exchange rates during market hours so you know exactly how much you're sending 
Send up to GBP50,000 per day (or currency equivalent) 
See the estimated arrival time on screen when you send a payment 
More than just a travel money card 
Order your Global Money multi-currency debit card when you apply at no extra cost and add it immediately to your digital wallet. It can be used at home, abroad and online 
With your Global Money debit card, you can spend or withdraw cash with no HSBC fees. Check for other non-HSBC charges, for example when using cash machines 
Use your card abroad and spend like a local. We'll debit the payment from your currency balance if funds are available. If not, or if the transaction is in a currency you can't hold a balance in, we'll debit your GBP balance 
HSBC UK's best exchange rates 
Benefit straight away from our competitive live exchange rates 
You can view these rates in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app before you convert 
You can add or convert currency at any time, storing it until you need it. Convert on the go or when the rate is right for you 
When you're using your card abroad and have the funds in the currency balance you are spending in, there won't be a conversion 
If there aren't enough funds in the right currency balance, but you have funds in GBP and spend in one of the currencies you can hold with us, the conversion will be done using the HSBC Global Money Exchange Rate. Any other currencies will be converted using the VISA exchange rate 
Before you apply 
Who can apply 
You can apply for an HSBC Global Money Account if you have:
an active HSBC UK current account (excluding Basic Bank Account, Amanah, Appointee and MyAccount)
a valid email address that's on our records
the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app (Global Money is only available via the app)
Find out how to add or update your email address.
You must also read the important documents.
Important documents 
HSBC Global Money Account Terms and Conditions (PDF, 582 KB) HSBC Global Money Account Terms and Conditions (PDF, 582 KB) Download 
HSBC Global Money Account fee information document (PDF, 181 KB) HSBC Global Money Account fee information document (PDF, 181 KB) Download 
UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 106 KB) UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 106 KB) Download 
Privacy notice (PDF, 498 KB) Privacy notice (PDF, 498 KB) Download 
Apply for a Global Money Account 
Already an HSBC customer? 
On your mobile and have our app?
Get started 
New to HSBC? 
If you're not yet an HSBC customer with an eligible current account, find out more about our current accounts and how to apply.
See our current accounts 
Not on your mobile? 
Scan the code to get started.
Frequently asked questions 
What is an HSBC Global Money Account? 
It's a digital account you can use to hold money in different currencies. It's also an easy-to-use instant payment service that lets you manage, send and spend money in different currencies securely. It's free from HSBC fees. Non-HSBC fees may apply. If a payment is sent to your Global Money Account in a non-GBP currency it will be received, but will be converted into GBP. In the future you’ll be able to receive foreign currency into your account without it being converted to GBP.
What currencies can I hold and use with an HSBC Global Money Account? 
You can send and spend payments more than 50 currencies to 200 countries and regions. If you don't hold a balance in the currency you are spending in, simply ensure funds are available in your GBP wallet.
You can hold balances in these currencies:
GBP - pound sterling
EUR - euro
USD - US dollar
AUD - Australian dollar
ZAR - South African rand
PLN - Polish zloty
CAD - Canadian dollar
NZD - New Zealand dollar
CHF - Swiss franc
SEK - Swedish krona
HKD - Hong Kong dollar
AED - UAE dirham
CZK - Czech koruna
NOK - Norwegian krone
DKK - Danish krone
SGD - Singapore dollar
JPY - Japanese yen
CNY* - Chinese yuan renminbi
*Whilst you can hold a CNY balance, there are are regulatory restrictions that prevent you being able to send or spend inside or outside China. Chinese regulations only allow for payments in GBP, USD or EUR, so you will need to ensure you have funds available in these currencies.
How do I use my Global Money card? 
Simply add GBP or any supported currency to your HSBC Global Money Account. Use your debit card as you would at home. We'll debit payment from your currency balance if funds are available. If not, or if the transaction is in a currency you can't hold a balance in, we'll debit your GBP balance.
If using local currency where you don't hold a balance, this will debit your GBP balance and not any other currency balance. For example, if you use Mexican pesos this will be debited from \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/global-money/
########Top of main content 
Travel Money 
Fee-free deliveries on your Travel Money to HSBC Full and Cash Service branches or home. 
Please note: until further notice we will only be able to buy back Danish Krone and Norwegian Krone banknotes where these have been purchased from us. We will require an HSBC or First Direct receipt or confirmation to complete the buyback.
close 
Travel Money made easy 
We’ve made ordering your Travel Money quick and easy – order online and choose home delivery or collect in a branch.
Travel Money features: 
Quick and easy to order online 
Just follow the onscreen instructions and order your Travel Money in minutes. 
All major currencies available 
We offer a wide range of foreign currencies for your Travel Money needs. 
Fee-free delivery 
Order online before 14:00 and your money will be delivered to your home or chosen Full Service or Cash Service Branch the next working day. Delivery to remote locations, including the Channel Islands and Isle of Man, will take 2-3 working days. 
Buy back service 
Please ask in a branch for our buy back rates as different exchange rates apply for this service. Buy back is available at our Full Service Branch and Cash Service Branch only. 
Travel Money is available with fee-free delivery to your home address or collection at HSBC Full or Cash Service branches, find out how here.
Check rates and order online 
For details on how we will use your personal information, please see our Privacy Notice (PDF, 160KB)Privacy Notice (PDF, 160KB) This link will open in a new window, HSBC Travel Money is provided by Travelex Currency Service Ltd. Please read its privacy notice shown in the order form.
How to order Travel Money 
You can order your Travel Money online 24/7, subject to site maintenance and upgrades:
Order before 14.00 for delivery the next working day. Orders placed after 14.00 will arrive within 2 working days. Delivery to remote locations, including the Channel Islands and Isle of Man, will be within 3 working days
Select delivery to your home or chosen branch
Choose from all major currencies
The minimum order for Travel Money is £100 and you have to have an account with HSBC, first direct or M&S Bank
Travel money service available for over 18s
Check rates and order online Check rates and order online This link will open in a new window 
Please be aware that the changes in currency values are normal and could happen. HSBC UK will always be clear about the exchange rate and any associated fees or charges.
For details on how we will use your personal information, please see our Privacy Notice (PDF, 160KB)Privacy Notice (PDF, 160KB) This link will open in a new window, HSBC Travel Money is provided by Travelex Currency Service Ltd. Please read its privacy notice shown in the order form.
Have you considered a Global Money Account? 
Spend and send money around the world in multiple currencies, with no HSBC fees. Eligibility criteria aplly. Non-HSBC fees may apply. 
Find out more Find out more about Global Money Account 
Your travel checklist 
Make sure to follow these tips before, during and after you travel:
Note down the lost or stolen emergency number just in case
Order your Travel Money online
Get Travel Insurance and take the policy details along with you. Some of our current accounts have Travel Insurance. Be sure to check before you book any Travel Insurance
When you return, take your unused notes back to your Full Service or Cash Service Branch and we'll buy them back from you. Please ask in a branch for our buy back rates as different exchange rates apply for this service
How do I cancel my Travel Money order? 
Sorry, but once you've confirmed any Travel Money orders, we can't cancel them. This is because of fluctuation in the rates. You can visit a Full Service or Cash Service Branch once you've received your Travel Money and exchange it back into pounds. But please note the rates will be different and you won't receive the amount you paid.
You might also be interested in
Using your card outside the UK
As well as your Travel Money, you can also use your HSBC debit cards and credit cards when you're outside the UK. Fees apply.
HSBC Currency Account
Looking for an easy to manage currency holding account? With no monthly account fees, our Currency Account helps put you in control.
International Payments
Send money quickly and securely outside the UK using our International Payments service. Fees may apply.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/travel-money/
########Top of main content 
International payments 
Send money from the UK all over the world securely through the app or online, 24/7 
An easy, quick way to send and receive money worldwide 
An international money transfer is a safe, secure way to send money to a bank account in other country or region. With HSBC you can do it securely via the app or online, at any time and in local currency. Plus, we only use up-to-date exchange rates during market hours.
We currently offer 2 ways to send money to accounts worldwide – through a Global Money Account in the app or by making an international payment in online banking or the app. You can also receive money into your UK accounts via international payments (except the Global Money account, which can only currently receive sterling payments). Fees may apply.
International payments in online banking 
Make international payments 24/7 in online banking to 150+ destinations. Fees may apply if using this option.
Send up to £50,000 (or currency equivalent) online, and up to £10,000 (or currency equivalent) by phone (Premier customers have a higher phone limit11 view footnote 1) 
Make payments in local currency with real-time rates (in market hours), so you know how much you're sending or receiving 
Send money without HSBC fees when you transfer to another HSBC account or when you pay in euros to somewhere in the European Economic Area (EEA)22 view footnote 2 
If you're sending money in any currency outside the EEA, or to somewhere in the EEA in a currency other than euros, pay a £5 HSBC fee. This fees does not apply if you use a Global Money account. 
Receive money into your UK accounts via international payments 
Track your payment through online banking 
Global Money Account 
Make international payments via the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app with a Global Money Account with no HSBC fees.
Send up to £50,000 per day (or currency equivalent) in 50+ currencies to 200+ countries 
See the estimated arrival time when you send a payment 
Send without HSBC or intermediary bank fees 
Buy online from international retailers 
Add your contactless debit card to your digital wallet 
Store 18 currencies in your Global Money account 
Track your payment within the app 
Sending and receiving money outside the UK 
How do international payments work? 
What details do you need to transfer money internationally? 
To send money online, over the phone or in a branch, you'll need:
The amount you're sending – you can pay in sterling or in the local currency
The name on the account you're sending the money to - you'll need to include the exact name in the payment instruction to avoid your payment being delayed or rejected
The bank code (SWIFT or BIC) of the bank you’re sending money to
The IBAN or account number of the person or business you’re sending money to – this has the information we need to send a payment overseas
The address of the person or business you’re sending money to
The address of the bank you’re sending money to
A reason for the payment - this helps us avoid delays
A payment reference
It's important that you check all the details, such as name and account number, are correct before making a payment. If anything is incorrect, it may result in your payment being returned. You might receive a lower amount back because of deductions made for charges or exchange rates, for example.
How to send money outside the UK 
Send money with no HSBC fees with Global Money 
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app
If you already have a Global Money Account, select 'Pay or transfer' and then 'Send money internationally' from the Global Money menu
Enter the payment details and follow the on-screen instructions
Review and confirm your payment
If you don't have a Global Money Account, you'll need to open one first. To do this, log on to the HSBC app and select the 'Global Money' option in the menu below your account list and follow the instructions to open the account.
Send money through Online Banking 
Log on to online bankingLog on to online banking This link will open in a new window
Add your friends and family as payees if you haven't already
Select 'Pay and Transfer', then choose the account you want to make the payment from
Enter the payment details and follow the on-screen instructions
If you're sending money outside the UK for the first time, authorise the transaction using your Secure Key
Review and confirm your payment - once complete, you'll be able to make international payments to the same payee via the app
If you haven't set up online banking yet, register now to make an international payment.
Send money using a Digital Secure Key 
Log on to online bankingLog on to online banking This link will open in a new window
On your Secure Key, select the transaction tab
Enter the last 4 digits of the payee's account number or IBAN followed by the full payment amount unconverted, ignoring any letters or special characters and the decimal point
Generate your 6-digit transaction code using fingerprint or face ID, or your Digital Secure Key password
Select 'Continue' in online banking to complete your payment
Send money using a Physical Secure Key 
Press and hold the green button to turn your Secure Key on, then enter your PIN
When 'HSBC' displays, press the yellow button
Enter the last 4 digits of the payee's account number or IBAN followed by the full payment amount unconverted, ignoring any letters or special characters and the decimal point
Press the yellow button to generate your 6-digit transaction code
Log on to online bankingLog on to online banking This link will open in a new window and enter the code, then select 'Continue' to complete your payment
Make a payment in branch 
When making an international payment in one of our branches, please bring the following with you:
Photographic identification
Beneficiary details
Payment details
Find a branch 
If you're sending money to the EEA22 view footnote 2 in euros or sterling, it should reach the account the next working day. 
Som\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/money-transfer/
########Top of main content 
Currency Account 
Easily manage your foreign currency 
Managing your foreign currency 
The HSBC Currency Account is an easy-to-manage currency holding account, with no monthly account fee. You can choose from 14 major currencies and open a separate account for each one to store, send and receive money. 
Designed to support your international lifestyle, with easy access to your account via online banking, you can manage your finances wherever you are in the world.
Account features: 
No account fee 
There's no monthly fee for the account and no payment fee when sending money to another HSBC account anywhere in the world. You can also send money to non HSBC accounts outside the UK fees may apply. 
Live exchange rates 
With live rates updated by the second during market hours, we'll provide you with our most up-to-date foreign exchange rate available when sending money. 
Managing your payments 
You can create immediate payments to send money outside the UK, or set these up online up to a year in advance or on a recurring basis. 
Available currencies Available currencies Opens in overlay 
HSBC Currency Account 
Discover whether our new Global Money Account, with multi-currency debit card and the ability to hold more currencies than an HSBC Currency Account, might be better suited to your needs.
Global Money Account Global Money Account for a Currency Account 
If you wish to proceed with an HSBC Currency Account, which does not come with a debit card, find out how to apply.
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for a Currency Account 
How to apply for a HSBC Currency Account 
Are you eligible?
To apply for an HSBC Currency Account you need to:
hold an active HSBC current account (excluding Basic Bank Account)
be 18 years of age or over
If you're not yet an HSBC customer, find out more about our current accounts.
Apply online in minutes 
If you’re an existing HSBC current account (excluding Basic Bank Account) customer, log on or register for online banking to apply.
Log on to apply Log on to apply for a HSBC Currency Account This link will open in a new window 
I'm new to HSBC I'm new to HSBC I'm new to HSBC 
Apply by phone 
Apply by phone 
HSBC Premier customers: 03457 707 070†
All other customers: 03457 404 404*
Outside the UK: +44 1226 260 260*

†Our lines are open 24 hours a day for HSBC Premier and Advance customers
*Our lines are open from 8am to 10pm every day (excluding Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day)
More information 
The rate we use is the HSBC Exchange Rate at the time your payment is made. This is a live rate which is updated by the second during market hours. We’ll notify you each time you make a payment from your account. Where a currency exchange has been involved, we’ll confirm the HSBC Exchange Rate that has been applied.
It’s not possible to cancel an immediate payment or transfer. If you need to cancel a payment that is due to be made on a future or recurring date, then you have until 23:59 (UK time) the day before the payment is due, to cancel it. This can only be done via online banking.
Please note: there’s no interest payable on the HSBC Currency Account.
Financial Services Compensation Scheme Information Sheet (PDF, 585KB) Financial Services Compensation Scheme Information Sheet (PDF, 585KB) Download 
Privacy notice (PDF, 639KB) Privacy notice (PDF, 639KB) Download 
HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Documents 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - US Dollar (PDF, 149KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - US Dollar (PDF, 149KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Euro (PDF, 198KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Euro (PDF, 198KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Australian Dollar (PDF, 198KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Australian Dollar (PDF, 198KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Canadian Dollar (PDF, 196KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Canadian Dollar (PDF, 196KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Chinese Yuan (PDF, 197KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Chinese Yuan (PDF, 197KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Emirati Dirham (PDF, 198KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Emirati Dirham (PDF, 198KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Hong Kong Dollar (PDF, 197KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Hong Kong Dollar (PDF, 197KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Japanese Yen (PDF, 196KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Japanese Yen (PDF, 196KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - New Zealand Dollar (PDF, 197KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - New Zealand Dollar (PDF, 197KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Norwegian Krone (PDF, 199KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Norwegian Krone (PDF, 199KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Singapore Dollar (PDF, 152KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Singapore Dollar (PDF, 152KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - South African Rand (PDF, 152KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - South African Rand (PDF, 152KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Swedish Krona (PDF, 197KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Swedish Krona (PDF, 197KB) Download 
HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Swiss Franc (PDF, 197KB) HSBC Currency Account Fee Information Document - Swiss Franc (PDF, 197KB) Download 
Glossary of Terms 
Glossary of Terms (PDF, 67KB) Glossary of Terms (PDF, 67KB) Download 
Frequently Asked Questions 
How can \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/currency-account/
########Top of main content 
How to apply for an account overseas 
Whether you're moving, retiring or studying outside the UK, see how we can help you open an account in another destination. 
Why open an overseas account with us? 
Manage your money easily across borders and make the most of your finances, wherever you are.
Open another account in over 20 destinations, from within or outside the UK 
Settle in with a credit card in your new destination 
Manage all your accounts from one place online, and make fee-free transfers between them if you're a Premier or Advance customer 
Enjoy the same HSBC Global Private Banking and Premier privileges in eligible markets 
How to open an overseas account 
1. Check you can apply 
We can help you open an account in a number of destinations before you leave the UK. Different eligibility criteria will apply depending on where you want to open an account. We'll ask you to check you meet these before applying. 
2. Complete your application 
Complete an online form and, if required, book a phone appointment with us. 
3. Verify your documents 
Once you've completed your application, we'll ask you to verify your documents such as ID and proof of address. 
Things to know 
Who can apply? 
You can apply online before you leave the UK for an account in certain countries and regions. If you're 18 or over, currently living in the UK and have an HSBC UK current account, you can complete the online form, then book a follow-up phone appointment with us to complete your application.
Any international account is subject to qualifications, status and local country or region laws and regulations.
Available countries and regions 
Australia
HSBC Expat (Offshore banking services)
China
Hong Kong
India
Singapore
UAE
USA
Need an account somewhere else? 
If you need an account in another destination, Get started to find out how to apply when you get there.
What you'll need to apply 
You can complete the form if you're:
at least 18 years old
currently living in and applying from the UK
an HSBC UK current account holder
Before you start, check you have your:
identity details including your full name, date of birth and nationality as they appear on your ID documents
employment, income and tax details
If you're applying for a joint account, you'll need to provide details for both applicants.
After you apply 
We'll ask you to book a phone appointment with an International Banking case manager. They'll discuss your application in more detail to help you open your account outside the UK.
During your appointment, you'll need the following information for all applicants:
valid proof of identity, such as your passport, driving licence or national ID
proof of your current address, such as a bank statement or utility bill
Your International Banking case manager may ask for additional documents.
Ready to open an overseas account? 
Simply select your current location and where you would like to open an overseas account. We'll then tell you the best way for you to apply and walk you through the steps.
Get started Get started to open an HSBC overseas account This link will open in a new window 
If you're having trouble with your application, we're here to help.
Contact us 
Need an HSBC UK account? 
If you've just arrived in the UK, or are looking to open a UK account before you arrive, open a current or Premier account to get started. Eligibility criteria applies.
Already in the UK 
Apply before I arrive 
You might also be interested in 
Our international services 
Find out how we'll support your international journey and help you bank more easily. 
Checklist for moving overseas 
Put your mind at ease with a checklist of things to remember as you prepare to move abroad. 
HSBC Premier 
Unlock the benefits of international banking for you and your family when you open a Premier account. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/overseas-account-opening/
########Top of main content 
Global transfers 
Move money between your HSBC accounts around the world securely and fee-free 
Important: closure of Global Transfers service in Canada. HSBC Canada is being sold to the Royal Bank of Canada. As a result, from 10:00 HKT (02:00 GMT) on 17 March 2024, you’ll no longer be able to use Global Transfers to and from HSBC Canada accounts.
close 
No fees to pay – a smarter way to move your money around the world 
As an HSBC Premier or Advance customer with accounts around the world, you can view and manage all your accounts in one place with our Global View service, wherever you are, and make free transfers between them with Global Transfers.
Get started 
Link international accounts together 
Stay connected and get a single view of all your worldwide accounts 24/7 wherever you are with Global View1Footnote link 1. Just register for online banking in all the destinations you have an HSBC account to get started.
Link all your HSBC accounts just 2 days after opening your account outside the UK 
Log on once to view and manage them all on one screen 
Send money between your accounts, and set up and track recurring payments 
Make fee-free global transfers 
Whether it's to pay a home loan, fund an education, support family outside the UK or something else, you can make free Global Transfers between all your worldwide HSBC Premier or Advance accounts1Footnote link 1 in seconds.
Move up to USD200,000 (or currency equivalent) per day between your global accounts 
Move money in 26 countries and regions11 view footnote 1 
Our trusted global network guarantees secure, automated transfers 
Use our live exchange rates for transfers 
Send money to your accounts confidently online around the world, whenever you're sending it, with our live exchange rates.
Transfer in over 26 currencies2Footnote link 2 
Send money in local currency with real-time rates during market hours, so you know exactly how much you're sending and receiving 
Using Global View and Global Transfers 
How do HSBC Global Transfers work? 
How to link your accounts with Global View 
Before you start, make sure you're registered for online banking in the UK and the other countries or regions you hold accounts in.
Log onLog on This link will open in a new window or register for HSBC UK online bankingregister for HSBC UK online banking This link will open in a new window, go to 'Account services' and select 'Add/remove country' under Global view.
Select the country/region you want to link to, then read and accept the terms and conditions.
You'll be redirected to your selected country or region's online banking, where you can enter your log on details.
Once logged in, follow the on-screen instructions to link your accounts.
How to transfer money between HSBC accounts in different countries 
Move money through online banking 
Log on to online banking.
Select 'Pay & Transfer', then choose the account you want to make a transfer from.
From 'Your own HSBC accounts', select 'Your International accounts' and choose the HSBC account you want to move money to.
Input the amount you want to send, and follow the on-screen instructions.
Review and confirm your transfer.
Move money in our app 
Log on to the HSBC UK Banking app.
Select 'Pay & Transfer', then 'Make a payment or transfer'.
Choose the accounts sending and receiving money.
Input the amount you want to send, and follow the on-screen instructions.
Review and confirm your transfer.
You can move up to USD200,000 (or the currency equivalent) per day between your accounts. Some countries and regions may have a maximum limit for inbound payments, so it's important you check with them first.
Global Transfers between HSBC accounts are usually instant in most currencies, but it could take up to 5 working days in some countries.
Future-dated and recurring international payments 
To set up or cancel future-dated or recurring payments in online banking, select 'Manage payments - future payments' in 'Send Money Overseas'.
You can request to cancel any time up to 23:59 (UK time) on the day before the payment is due to be made.
We can't cancel a payment if you've asked us to make it immediately.
How much do HSBC global transfers cost? 
Moving money between your accounts 
As a Premier or Advance customer with HSBC accounts in at least 2 countries or regions, you can send up to USD200,000 each day via Global Transfers for free.
Get started with HSBC Global Transfers 
Before you start, check that you:
have a current account in the UK and at least one other country or region
are registered for online banking in the UK and all the countries or regions you have an account in
Log on to online banking to start making transfers between your global accounts.
Set up Global View 
Need an account outside the UK? 
We can help you open an account in another country or region, so you can start using Global View and Global Transfers.
How to open an overseas account 
You might also be interested in
HSBC Currency Account
Send, store and receive up to 14 foreign currencies easily with our multi-currency holding account.
Travel money
Going on holiday? Order your travel money online and get fee-free delivery to home or an HSBC branch.
International money transfers
Send money from the UK to over 150 destinations in just a few minutes and with simple fees.
Global View and Global Transfers are available for accounts in: Australia, Bahrain, Bermuda, Canada, Channel Islands, Mainland China, Egypt, France, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Isle of Man, Philippines, Jersey (HSBC Expat), Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, New Zealand, Vietnam, Qatar, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, UAE, UK and US. 
The currencies supported by Global View and Global Transfers are AED, AUD, BHD, CAD, CHF, CNY, CZK, DKK, EUR, GBP, HKD, INR, JPY, KWD, MXN, NOK, NZD, PLN, QAR, RUB, SAR, SEK, SGD, THB, TRY, USD, ZAR. Please note that each country may not support transfers in all currencies from these countries. For example, transfers from the USA\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/global-view-and-global-transfers/
########Top of main content 
Explore your current account 
Already a customer? Get the best from your current account 
Your current account is your key to everyday banking. We'll show you how to make the most of it, including how to protect yourself from fraud and how to stay financially fit.
Register for online banking 
Current account essentials
Managing your account online
Find out how to manage your money using online banking and the HSBC app.
Offers
This link will open in a new window 
A unique offers programme, whether you're at home or away.
Manage your overdraft
Prepare for life's unexpected costs with a range of overdraft information for existing customers. 
Card support
Activate your debit or credit card and find out more about using it - including the interest rates and any fees for your card.
Make your account work for you
Lost your details
Reset a PIN or password 
Secure Key help 
Digital banking help tool Digital banking help tool This link will open in a new window 
Stay secure
Latest scams 
Protect yourself from fraud 
How we keep you safe 
Boost your banking knowledge
How a current account works for you 
Understanding your balance 
How to grow your money 
Check your financial fitness
Get your financial fitness score
Put your money through its paces, and see how your score compares to others. 
Book a financial health check
Our financial fitness trainers are on hand to speak to you about your banking needs.
Rising cost of living
Energy, food, rent and fuel prices have been going up. Here, you'll find ideas on how to cut back on spending and ways to reduce the stress.
Help with money worries
Advice and guidance for when you need it most.
Explore more
Help us make banking better
This link will open in a new window 
Sign up to HSBC Customer Studio, the online community where you can review our products and services and test drive what we have in development.
What are the benefits of a current account?
Six ways that a current account can simplify your financial life.
How to open a joint account
Whether it's with a partner, relative or friend, a joint account will help you manage shared money more easily.
What is a digital wallet?
Find out how to simplify your online and in-store purchases - safely.
You might also be interested in
Credit cards
We’ve got a range for you to choose from.
Savings
Find the right savings account for you.
Loans
Compare our loans, from £1,000 to £25,000.
Investing
Discover ways we could help you make your money work harder. Capital at risk. Eligibility and fees apply. 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/existing-customers/
########Top of main content 
Feedback and complaints 
Share your concerns and find an answer 
We’re really sorry we didn’t get things quite right for you. But we’re keen to hear your thoughts on how we can improve. If you have a complaint, it’s really important you let us know. Then we can work with you to address your concerns and put it right.
By taking some details from you regarding your query, we can direct you to the right place.
Other ways to get in touch
Give us a call
Personal Banking customers
From the UK
03457 404 404
Lines are open from 08:00 to 20:00 every day.
Premier Banking customers: 03457 707070
Lines are open from 08:00 to 20:00 every day.

Business Banking customers: 03457 606060
Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00
Saturday 08:00 to 14:00
From outside the UK
+44 1226 261 010
Lines are open from 08:00 to 20:00 every day.
Premier customers: 
Premier customers: +44 122 6260260
Lines are open from 08:00 to 20:00 every day.
Business customers: +44 122 6260878
Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00
Saturday 08:00 to 14:00
Visit a branch
If you want to visit one of our branches, you can find the nearest one to you and check the opening times.
Find your branch
Write to us
Send your letter to: 
Customer Service Centre, BX8 1HB.
What happens next?
When can you expect a response? 
We aim to resolve your complaint as soon as you get in touch with us. However, where we need to look into your complaint in more detail we'll send you a response within 5 working days. This will explain: 
When you can expect to hear from us again. 
How your complaint will be dealt with. 
We always aim to respond to your complaints as soon as possible. However, depending on the type of query, this can occasionally take longer: 
For a payment service: Responses may take up to 15 days (or 35 days if there are exceptional circumstances). Typically, this will be payments made or received from your Current Account, Credit Card or Savings Account. 
For any other matter: Responses may take up to 56 days. Where we are unable to respond during this time we will contact you with an update.
If we are able to resolve things straight away and to your satisfaction, we will send you written confirmation. 
Not happy with our response? 
If you are not happy with the way we resolved your complaint, please let us know as soon as possible. We will conduct a review and look to get it sorted. 
Alternatively, you can contact the Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS), who will independently review your case for free. 
Please note that if longer than six months has passed since our final response letter, the FOS will not have our permission to consider your complaint and so will only be able to do so in very limited circumstances. This includes where the FOS believes that the delay was the result of exceptional circumstances. 
Contact details are found below: 
Financial Ombudsman Service
Exchange Tower
London
E14 9SR
Free phone: 0800 023 4567
Low-cost phone: 0300 123 9123
Email : complaint.info@financial-ombudsman.org.uk
Website: www.financial-ombudsman.org.ukwww.financial-ombudsman.org.uk This link will open in a new window
Complaints Data 
Every 6 months both the Financial Conduct AuthorityFinancial Conduct Authority This link will open in a new window and the Financial OmbudsmanFinancial Ombudsman This link will open in a new window publish complaints data about individual financial businesses. We've therefore provided a summary of our latest complaints data. For more information, see here.
Claims Management Companies 
Claims management companies are firms that act as intermediaries between claimants and companies being claimed against in return for a fee. 
Whilst you are free to use a CMC if you wish to do so, please be aware that if you contact us directly we will assess your complaint in exactly the same way that we assess complaints sent in by a CMC and you won't have to pay a fee if you do receive compensation.
For independent guidance on how CMCs work visit Which?Which? This link will open in a new window
Learning from complaints 
Our customers are at the heart of everything we do, and we want you to be happy with the products and service you receive. Unfortunately, we know that things can sometimes go wrong. When this happens, we aim to: 
Put things right for you as best and as quickly as we can. 
Make sure you know who is dealing with your complaint should we need more time to work out what’s gone wrong. 
Learn from your issue, and implement the changes needed to make sure it doesn’t happen again.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/feedback-and-complaints/
########Top of main content 
Making payments 
Send money quickly, easily and securely 
Making payments easy 
Send money to friends and family up to your account's personal payment limit with online and mobile banking – the fastest and most secure way to make payments. Payments to companies are limited to £25,000 with the mobile app and online banking. If you need any help, check out these guides and frequently asked questions.
Making payments tool Making payments tool This link will open in a new window 
Take me straight to 
Pay a company or credit card 
Pay someone new 
Transfer money between your HSBC accounts 
Send money outside the UK 
Send money to someone you've paid before 
Generate a security code 
Other types of payment 
Personal payment limits 
Frequently asked questions 
Pay a company or credit card 
To make things easier, we've pre-filled the account details for hundreds of major companies. If you're paying a credit card or utility bill, try searching our company list first. If the company you're paying isn't included, you'll need to add them as a new payee.
Using the mobile banking app 
1. Go to 'Pay & Transfer'
Log on, select 'Pay & Transfer', then 'Make a payment or transfer'.
2. Select your account
Choose the account you'd like to send the money from, then select 'My payees'.
3. Add a new payee
Choose 'Add a new payee', go to 'Select a company', then select 'Next'.
4. Find the company
Search for the company, then follow the on-screen instructions to complete the payment.
Using online banking 
1. Log on
Log on to online banking.
2. Select 'Pay & Transfer'
Choose 'Pay and transfer from the quick links section.
3. Select your account
Tell us which account you want to make the payment from.
4. Find the company
Select 'Using our company look-up'. Select the company and follow the on-screen instructions.
Back to top 
Pay someone new 
If you're paying family, friends or anyone else for the first time, just ask them for their sort code and account number, then follow these instructions. 
Using the mobile banking app 
1. Go to 'Pay & Transfer'
Log on, select 'Pay & Transfer', then 'Make a payment or transfer'.
2. Select your account
Choose the account you'd like to send the money from, then select the 'My Payees' tab.
3. Add the payee
Select 'Add a new payee' twice, and then 'Next'.
4. Follow the on-screen instructions
Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the payment.
Using online banking 
1. Go to 'Pay & Transfer'
Log on to online banking and select 'Pay and transfer' from the quick links section.
2. Choose your account
Tell us which account you want to make the payment from.
3. Add details
Select 'A new payee' then tell us the currency and country the payment is going to.
4. Follow the on-screen instructions
Follow the on-screen instructions to complete your payment.
Back to top 
Transfer money between your HSBC accounts 
Whether you want to send money to your savings account or pay your HSBC credit card, here's how to move money between your HSBC accounts.
Using the mobile banking app 
1. Log on
Log on to the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
2. Go to 'Pay & Transfer'
Select Pay & Transfer, then 'Make a payment or transfer'.
3. Select accounts
Choose the account you'd like to transfer the money from, and the one you want to transfer the money to.
4. Follow the on-screen instructions
Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the payment.
Using online banking 
1. Go to 'Pay & Transfer'
Log on and select 'Pay and transfer' from the quick links section.
2. Select your account
Choose the account you want to transfer money from, and in the 'To' section, select 'Your own HSBC accounts'.
3. Select the account you're transferring to
Tell us where you'd like to send the money.
4. Follow the on-screen instructions
Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the transfer.
Back to top 
Sending money outside the UK 
If you're looking to send money outside the UK, please visit our international payments page for charges, rates and more information.
Send money to someone you've paid before 
Once you’ve sent money to someone, their details will be added to your list of payees. To send money to them again follow these steps:
Using the mobile banking app 
1. Log on
Log on to the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
2. Go to 'Pay & Transfer'
Select Pay & Transfer, then 'Make a payment or transfer'.
3. Choose your account
Tell us which account you want to make the payment from.
4. Select the payee
Choose the person you want to pay from the 'My payees' list. Then follow the on-screen instructions to complete the payment.
Using online banking 
1. Log on
Log on and select 'Pay and transfer' from the quick links section.
2. Select your account
Choose the account you want to transfer money from, and in the 'To' section, select 'Your saved payees'.
3. Select the payee
Tell us who you want to send the money to.
4. Follow the on-screen instructions
Follow the on-screen instructions to complete the transfer.
Back to top 
Generate a transaction code with your Secure Key 
When you're using online banking to send money to a new payee, we'll ask you to authorise the transaction by generating a one-time transaction code on your Secure Key. Here's how to do it.
Using a Digital Secure Key 
1. Select 'Generate security code'
Open the app, but don't log on. Select 'Generate security code' at the bottom of the screen.
2. Select code type
Select 'Transaction security code' from the list.
3. Enter payment details
Enter the last 4 digits of the account number you're sending money to, along with the full payment amount, including pence. For example, if you were paying £152.00 to account number 400500 12345678, you would enter 567815200.
4. Enter transaction code
A 6-digit code will be generated. Enter this into the 'Security code' box in online banking and select 'Continue' to complete the payment.
Using a physical Secure Key 
1. Enter your PIN
Press and hold the round, green button (bottom right) to switch on, then enter your PIN.
2.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/making-payments/
########Top of main content 
Money worries 
We're here to help if you're worried about money 
Get help sorting out your finances 
If you're worried about money, we can help. We've got tools, tips and calculators to help you work out what to do next. Choose the option that applies to you and you'll find the guidance you need. 
Already missed a payment on an HSBC loan, overdraft, credit card or mortgage, or think you might miss one soon? Fill in an income and expenditure form so that we can work out the best way to support you.
	
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What money worries do you have? 
Mortgage worries 
I’ve missed a payment on my HSBC mortgage, or I'm worried that I might not be able to make future payments. 
Credit card, loan or overdraft worries 
I'm struggling to repay my HSBC overdraft, loan or credit card.	
Multiple debts 
I’m worried about debts I have with HSBC as well as payments to other banks or organisations. 
Guidance and more resources 
If something is happening in your life that means you might need some financial support, take a look at our practical advice about managing money. You could find the support that best suits you.	
Temporary arranged overdraft support 
We've introduced temporary support measures to help customers pay less for their arranged overdraft borrowing on our Bank Account, Advance Account, Current Account and Bank Account Pay Monthly. 
Improve your financial fitness 
Get tips and ideas on managing your money better.	
Managing debt 
Read our tips on how to reduce and repay your debts, so you can take control of your finances. 
Mental health support 
Money problems and your mental health are sometimes linked, find out how we could help. 
No fixed address service 
In partnership with Shelter and other UK charities, we can help people open a bank account without a fixed address. 
Financial abuse 
If someone is taking advantage of your finances, we could help you take back control. 
What is a loan shark? 
Learn more about illegal lending and what to do if you've borrowed from a loan shark. 
Credit card, loan or overdraft worries 
We understand how stressful it can be if you're worried about money.
Whether you've missed a payment on a credit card, loan or overdraft or are about to miss one, we're here to help. 
Our guidance on multiple debts might also be useful if you have other priority debt, like a utility or council bill.
What to do if you've already missed (or know you will miss) a payment or exceeded your credit or overdraft limit 
If you’re finding it hard to make payments to us or think you might miss a payment, it's important to act now by letting us know. This can help to stop things from getting worse.
To get things started, you’ll need to complete an income and expenditure form.
You can do this online in your own time.
We’ll ask some questions, so we can understand your situation and the pressures you’re facing. Our financial support team can then build a personalised plan to help you prioritise your debts. 
If you’d prefer to speak to our friendly team first, you can get in touch using Chat or give us a call.
What to do if you haven't missed a payment 
If you haven't missed a payment, we have advice on how to budget or manage your bills. Check out our guidance and resources on everyday budgeting. Our credit card repayment calculator can help you work out how to reduce your balance faster.
Multiple debts 
If you have multiple debts and need some breathing space, you can get free, impartial advice from our charity partners, including StepChange and National Debtline. 
StepChange have 30 years of experience providing expert advice and debt solutions for people.
If you’d like to do this, we can give you up to 60 days' space while you work with them.
This is the best option if you've missed a payment with several banks or organisations other than HSBC or are about to miss one.
It can feel daunting, but the sooner you reach out, the simpler it is to ease your money worries. 
Find more free money advice services.
Get other money advice for free 
StepChange Debt Charity StepChange Debt Charity This link will open in a new window 
Free debt advice from impartial experts - use their Money Health Check to get back on track. 
MoneyHelper MoneyHelper This link will open in a new window 
Get free, impartial advice on how to manage your money. 
National Debtline National Debtline This link will open in a new window 
Free help and advice on dealing with your debt. 
Shelter Shelter This link will open in a new window 
Housing advice including mortgages, rent and benefits. 
Citizens Advice Citizens Advice This link will open in a new window 
Free and independent advice to give you the confidence to find your way forward. 
PayPlan PayPlan This link will open in a new window 
Help with reducing monthly payments to free up more money for you and your family. 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/money-worries/
########Top of main content 
Telephone banking 
Keep on top of your money by phone 
Features 
We’re here to support you over the phone. For queries about your transactions, however, it’s often quicker and easier to go online or use our app – we have chat agents available to support you 24/7.
It’s quick and simple to complete the following online or through our mobile app:
check your balance
make payments
pay bills
transfer money
set up standing orders
update your details
block your card
report your card lost or stolen
Get set up online 
If you need assistance with more complex queries that can’t be completed with a chat agent, we’re available to support you over the phone.
It’s best to call when you’re dealing with: 
life events
fraud assistance
complex queries
Unfortunately, we can’t help you with: 
updates on a dispute – we’ll let you know as soon as we do
updates on an application, we’ll email you when we’ve processed your application
applications for a product, with the exception of vulnerable customers
We also offer a 24-hour automated service, which allows you to check your balance, make payments, report a card lost or stolen.
Stay safe and save yourself time with Voice ID 
HSBC Voice ID is making telephone banking safer than ever because:
easier - you won't need to remember your security number. You'll just need your voice to access your account
safer - fraudsters and hackers may be able to steal or guess your security number, but they can't replicate your voice. Voice ID can even recognise your voice if you have a cold or a sore throat
How do I sign up for Voice ID? 
You can do it in 4 easy steps:
Call 08000 852 380.
Verify yourself using your telephone security number.
Create your voiceprint saying 'My voice is my password' up to 5 times.
Use your voice to access your account through telephone banking.
The next time you call us, you won’t need a password. You'll just need to repeat that short, simple phrase. And don't worry about remembering it – we’ll remind you what to say.
If you've forgotten your phone banking security number, you can reset it by calling 03457 404 404.
HSBC Voice ID is available to UK customers over the age of 18 who are registered for phone banking.
Getting started 
To set up or reset a phone banking security number or for any other general queries that can’t be completed online, through the mobile app or with a chat agent, please call us on the number below:
03457 404 404
If you’re not already registered for online or mobile banking, you’ll be able to register for our online and app services once you have your phone banking number. This will give you access to our chat service 24/7, as well enabling you to register for Voice ID, all of which means you have fewer passwords to remember should you need to call us.
HSBC Premier Customers can call us on:
03457 707 070
Lines are open from 08:00 to 20:00 every day.
Frequently Asked Questions 
Can I set up Voice ID when I'm in the branch? 
Yes. One of our customer service representatives will take you to a phone in a quiet area so you can make the call to set it up.
If I’m ill or sound a bit different, will Voice ID still work? 
Voice ID will still work when you are suffering from a general cold or sore throat. In exceptional situations where you have a more severe illness that affects your voice, we'll verify you using a different method.
If I'm in a noisy place or it's a bad line, will Voice ID still work? 
We may not be able to recognise your voice if the line is bad or it's noisy in the background. If that happens, we'll transfer you to an agent who will verify you by asking you some security questions. Alternatively, you could call us back when you're somewhere less noisy or from a different phone.
If I have a speech impediment or use a voice box, will Voice ID still work? 
It should be possible for you to set up Voice ID if you have a speech impediment. We'll just need to ensure we can get at least three strong recordings of you repeating the pass phrase. However, you may find it easier to continue using your telephone banking security number.
We don't recommend setting up Voice ID if you use a voice box or speech synthesiser since some of these use a standard voice that won’t be unique to you.
Can I use Voice ID on behalf of someone for whom I am a carer or hold Power of Attorney? 
Yes, you can set up Voice ID on any account that you have permission to operate.
Click here for further FAQs 
More ways to bank
Online banking
Branch banking
Mobile banking
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/phone-banking/
########Top of main content 
Branch banking 
Do your banking in person 
If you want to visit one of our branches, you can find the nearest one to you and check the opening times. 
Our branch finder also shows what you'll find there, for example 24-hour cash machines or disabled access.
Find your nearest branch 
See how we can help you:
Our branch formats
Self service
Community Pop Up Events
Opening hours
Branch closures
More ways to bank
Our branch formats 
We now have 3 different formats for our branches. Please take a look at how the formats differ before planning your visit.
Full Service Branch 
Support for all your simple or complex banking needs, with access to a counter service, branch colleagues and specialists on site.
You can access: 
counter facilities
product opening support
account servicing, such as payments and statements
life event support, such as bereavement or power of attorney
cash and cheque machines via self service zones
digital education and community support
branch specialists for products such as mortgages
Digital Service Branch 
Counterless service, with our branch colleagues on hand to help you make the most of our self-service and digital channels.
You can access:
product opening support
account servicing, such as payments and statements
life event support, such as bereavement or power of attorney
cash and cheque machines via self service zones
digital education and community support
Cash Service Branch 
Easy access to cash, with quick, simple transactions through a counter service. Branch colleagues available by appointment to support with banking needs.
You can access:
counter facilities
product completion support
account servicing, such as payments and statements
life event support, such as bereavement or power of attorney
cash and cheque machines via self service zones
digital education
Self service 
Our self service machines are easy to use, secure and available in many of our branches. Ask one of our branch colleagues if you need help. Find out more on each machine below:
Cash machines 
Day or night, you can use our ATMs to withdraw money, check your balance and more:
cash withdrawals
print mini statements
charity donations
money transfers
credit card payments
balance enquiries
Express banking 
You can use our express banking machines to carry out some of your everyday banking:
view and print transactions
make a payment
check your balance
transfer money
manage standing orders and Direct Debits
pay bill
Pay in cash 
You can pay in cash using our pay in cash machine. To do this, you will need your HSBC debit card. Ask one of our branch colleagues if you need help.
Pay in cheque 
You can pay in cheques using our pay in cheque machine. To do this, you will need to complete a paying in slip along with your sort code and account number or debit card.
You can also pay in cheques easily with the HSBC Mobile Banking app, with a limit of £2,000. You can pay in one or more cheques up to this amount per day. 
What to expect 
These sessions will be conducted in a group but your identity as an attendee will remain anonymous. You will have the opportunity to ask us any questions that you may have. We have a number of different sessions you can join including:
Introduction to digital 
Get to know more about banking with us digitally, such as on your computer or through your mobile device.
Together against fraud 
Learn how to protect yourself against the latest frauds and scams, and what to do if you are suspicious.
Banking beyond the branch 
Find out the alternative ways you can manage your finances such as through our app, by phone or at your local post office.
Click here to find out more
Community Pop Up Events 
Our Community Pop Up Events are a great way to learn about how to make the most of banking with us.
You can have face-to-face conversations with some of our branch experts in local communities across the UK.
Find out more Find out more about Community Pop Up Events 
Branch closures 
Closure Impact Analysis and Stakeholder Engagement reports 
Making sure we have a sustainable branch network that is fit for the future is essential to us and decisions to close branches are not taken lightly. In recent years, as more digital capability has been introduced, our customers are increasingly using Online, Mobile and Telephone banking.
over the past 5 years, use of the bank’s branch network by regular customers has fallen by 65%
90% of people do their banking online, using our app or by phone
99% of cash withdrawals are made at an ATM
As a result, we sometimes have to make the difficult decision to close a branch. HSBC fully supports and follows the FCA Finalised Guidance on branch closures (FG22/6) dated October 2022 and the industry-wide Access to Banking Standard introduced by UK Finance in May 2017.
2023 Branch Closure Reports 
The attached reports summarises the impact assessment and local community engagement in the event of a closure. 
Branch Impact Analysis Report Stakeholder Engagement Report 
Abergavenny	Impact Analysis ReportImpact Analysis Report - Abergavenny This link will open in a new window	Stakeholder Engagement ReportStakeholder Engagement Report - Abergavenny This link will open in a new window	
Alton	Impact Analysis ReportImpact Analysis Report - Alton This link will open in a new window	Stakeholder Engagement ReportStakeholder Engagement Report - Alton This link will open in a new window	
Arnold	Impact Analysis ReportImpact Analysis Report - Arnold This link will open in a new window	Stakeholder Engagement ReportStakeholder Engagement Report - Arnold This link will open in a new window	
Ashton under Lyne	Impact Analysis ReportImpact Analysis Report - Ashton under Lyme This link will open in a new window	Stakeholder Engagement ReportStakeholder Engagement Report - Ashton under Lyne This link will open in a new window	
Beccles	Impact Analysis ReportImpact Analysis Report - Beccles This link will open in a new window	Stakeholder Engagement ReportStakeholder E\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/branch-banking/
########Top of main content 
Post Office banking 
Make everyday banking more convenient 
Everyday banking should be easy and convenient. If you have a HSBC UK current account, a quick visit to your local Post Office is often all you need to take care of the essentials. Use your debit card to check your balance, withdraw or deposit cash at any of the 11,500 Post Office locations across the UK.
Use our handy tool to find your nearest Post Office and check opening days and times.
	
Post Office branch finder Post Office branch finder This link will open in a new window 
Post Office banking services 
If you have an HSBC UK current account or a first direct current account, here's what you can do at the Post Office.
Deposit cash 
Using your debit card, you can deposit up to:
£3,000 cash per day at any Post Office (regardless of size or outlet). Coin is limited to £250, sorted by denomination in full coin bags. Loose £1 and £2 coins below the full bag amount will be accepted.
a maximum of £20,000 cash can be deposited per calendar year (January to December)
The clerk will give you a receipt and the cash will appear in your account immediately.
You don't need to provide your PIN or ID.
Deposit cheques 
To do this, you'll need to bring a paying-in slip, as the Post Office doesn't provide these.
The Post Office clerk will give you an HSBC cheque deposit envelope, with boxes to write your account number and sort code. You'll get a zero value receipt - the clerk won't open your envelope.
Cheques deposited at the Post Office take a little longer to clear, so you should allow 2 extra days.
Withdraw cash 
With your debit card, you can withdraw cash of any value up to your daily withdrawal limit.
You'll need your PIN to confirm the withdrawal and the clerk will give you a receipt, but you don't need to provide ID.
Check your balance 
To do this, you'll just need to provide your debit card and PIN. The clerk will give you a receipt with your balance printed on it, face down - they won't be able to see your balance.
Business customers 
If you have a business account with us, you can also do your everyday banking at the Post Office with just your Business Deposit Card or Business Debit Card. You can deposit:
£9,000 cash per day at a main Post Office and use the Change Giving Lite service to withdraw coins up to £2,000. Depositing coin is restricted to £250 per transaction, unless by prior arrangement.
a maximum of £40,000 cash per calendar month
Things you should know
If you want to deposit more than these limits, you can:
visit your nearest HSBC branch
go back to your local Post Office on another day 
You can only deposit notes at our Digital Service Branches - they don't accept coins. Find out more about our different branch formats.
Post Office can help with cash deposits and withdrawals and some other services. However, they won't be able to help with things such as appointments, new products or account opening
If you have a first direct current account, you can visit the first direct website for more information.
Frequently asked questions
Why are you reducing your deposit limits? 
We're committed to fighting financial crime. This means we must sometimes make changes to prevent and disrupt money laundering.
How do I pay in cash above these limits? 
You'll need to visit your nearest HSBC branch to complete your deposit. All our branches can accept note deposits, but if you need to pay in coins, you'll need to visit either a Full Service Branch or Cash Service Branch to make your deposit. To locate your nearest branch please use our branch locator tool.
I need to deposit more than the limit as a one-off. Can the restriction be lifted? 
No, we can't authorise any deposits above these limits at a Post Office counter.
Are you reducing cash deposit limits in branches too? 
No, the cash deposit limits apply only at the Post Office. You can make further deposits at an HSBC branch.
If I pay in my maximum daily limit today at a Post Office, can I pay in at the Post Office again tomorrow? 
Yes, you can deposit up to £3,000 today and deposit up to £3,000 again daily until you reach the £20,000 per year limit.
I have a joint account. Can the second account holder also pay in the daily limit to the same account on the same day as my deposit at the Post Office? 
No, deposit limits are for each account, not each card. Once one card holder reaches the daily or annual deposit limit, all cards on the account will then be declined.
How can I find out how much I've paid in at the Post Office in any calendar year? 
You'll need to keep a record of the deposits made in any given year. You can do this by reviewing your account online or checking your bank statements.
I'm not happy with these changes. How do I make a complaint? 
We've made these changes to combat money laundering procedures. We can't change our decision, but we'll take note of any complaints.
More ways to bank
Online banking
Mobile banking
Telephone banking
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/post-office/
########Top of main content 
Apple Pay 
Use your HSBC UK card with Apple Pay 
Fast, easy and secure 
Enjoy all the benefits of your HSBC UK debit and credit cards with Apple Pay on iPhone, Apple Watch, iPad, and Mac.
Using Apple Pay is simple, and it works with the devices you use every day. Your card information is secure because it isn’t stored on your device or shared when you pay. So you can pay in an easy, secure, and private way.
And you can say goodbye to the £100 contactless limit with Apple Pay. You can purchase over the contactless limit in many stores, so you can use Apple Pay for purchases, big or small. 
Look out for the following symbols to use Apple Pay on websites, apps or in stores:
HSBC UK won't charge you for using Apple Pay, but charges from your mobile network provider may apply depending on your data plan.
Using Apple Pay on the go 
Paying for journeys with Apple Pay on Transport for London (TfL) is now easier than ever. Express Transit mode allows you to use Apple Pay on your iPhone or Apple Watch to touch in and touch out for pay as you go journeys. There’s no need to use Face ID, Touch ID or double-click the side button on your Apple Watch.
To enable Express Transit mode for your HSBC UK card in Apple Wallet:
Go to Settings.
Select Wallet & Apple Pay.
Select Express Transit Card. 
If you have a default HSBC UK card set for Apple Pay, Express Transit mode will automatically be enabled for this card. If you wish to disable this feature please follow the steps above.
How to add a card 
On Apple Watch Series 3 and later, and iPhone 8 and iPhone 8 Plus and later, you can add up to 12 cards on a device. On earlier models, you can add up to 8 cards on a device. The same card can be added on up to 9 devices. The first card added to Apple Pay will be the default card. Payments will be from this card unless another card is selected. You can change your default card at any time by going into ‘Settings’, and then ‘Wallet & Apple Pay’.
HSBC UK Mobile Banking app 
Add your cards to Apple Pay directly from the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. Make sure you have the latest version of the app. Simply log in with your Digital Secure Key, go to “Manage cards” and swipe to select your eligible card. Then click on the “Add to Apple Wallet” button and follow the instructions to complete adding your card to the Apple Wallet.
iPhone 
Open the Wallet app, then tap the plus sign in the upper-right corner. From there, simply enter your card's security code to add your credit or debit card that you use with your Apple ID or, select 'Add a different card' and use your iPhone camera to scan the card information, or type it in manually.
Apple Watch 
Open the Apple Watch app on your iPhone and tap 'Wallet & Apple Pay'. Then select 'Add a new Credit or Debit Card'. From there simply enter your card's security code to add your credit or debit card that you use with your Apple ID. To add a different card use your iPhone camera to scan the card information, or type it in manually.
iPad 
Go into 'Settings', tap 'Wallet & Apple Pay', and tap 'Add Credit or Debit Card'. From there, simply enter your card's security code to add your credit or debit card that you use with your Apple ID or, select 'Add a different card' and use your iPad camera to scan the card information, or type it in manually.
MacBook with Touch ID 
Go to System Preferences, and select “Wallet & Apple Pay” and then “Add Card.” Enter your card’s security code to add your credit or debit that you use with your Apple ID. Or, select “Add a different card,” and use your camera to scan the card information.
Apple Pay is available on Mac models with Touch ID.
How to pay 
Paying in stores 
To pay with Face ID, double-click the side button, glance at your screen, then hold iPhone near the reader. For Touch ID, hold your iPhone near the reader with your finger on Touch ID.
On Apple Watch, double-click the side button and hold Apple Watch up to the reader. 
Paying in apps and on websites 
To pay in apps and on websites in Safari on your iPhone and iPad, select Apple Pay at checkout and complete the payment using Face ID or Touch ID.
To pay on websites in Safari on your Mac, select Apple Pay and complete the payment using your iPhone or Apple Watch. Or, if your Mac has Touch ID, select Apple Pay at checkout in Safari and complete the payment using Touch ID on the Touch Bar.
Paying on Transport for London (TfL) 
With Express Transit mode enabled, you don’t need to use Face ID or Touch ID - and there’s no need to double-click the side button of your Apple Watch.
Simply touch the top of your iPhone, or the display of your Apple Watch, to the middle of the yellow card reader at the start and end of your journey.
You can touch your iPhone or Apple Watch to the reader even if it’s locked, in the middle of a game, video or message. You’ll feel a vibration and see Done and a checkmark on the display.
If you have an iPhone XS, iPhone XS Max or iPhone XR, Express Transit mode with power reserve is available for up to 5 hours when your iPhone needs to be charged. If you choose to power off your iPhone, this feature won’t be available.
Your default card 
The first card you add to Wallet is assigned as your default card. If you add more cards and want to change your default card, follow these steps.
iPhone & iPad 
Go to Settings > Wallet & Apple Pay on your iPhone or iPad, and scroll down to Transaction Defaults. Tap Default Card, then choose a new card. On your iPhone, you can also open Wallet, touch and hold a card, then drag it to the front of your cards.
Apple Watch 
Open the Apple Watch app on your iPhone. Tap the My Watch tab, tap Wallet & Apple Pay > Default Card, then choose a new card.
Mac with Touch ID 
Go to System Preferences > Wallet & Apple Pay. Choose a new card from the Default Card pop-up menu.
Frequently Asked Questions
Which HSBC UK cards and which Apple devices are compatible? 
Most HSBC UK credit and debit cards are eligible for Apple Pay, subject to\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/apple-pay/
########Top of main content 
Google Pay 
Use your HSBC UK card with Google Pay
A fast and simple way to pay 
Add your eligible credit and debit cards to Google Pay™ on almost any Android phone or compatible smartwatch. You'll then be ready to start making payments straight away on websites, in apps and in stores in a fast, simple and secure way.
Use Google Pay on websites, in apps or in stores wherever you see these symbols:
We won't charge you for using Google Pay, but charges from your mobile network provider may apply, depending on your data plan.
How to add a card 
You’ll need a mobile data or Wi-Fi connection to add a card to Google Pay.
HSBC UK Mobile Banking app 
Add your cards to Google Pay using the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Download Google Wallet from the Google Play Store
Log on to the app with your Digital Secure Key and select the relevant account
Go to 'Manage cards' and swipe to select your eligible card
4. Select 'Add to Google Pay' and follow the instructions to complete adding your eligible card to Google Pay.
Phone 
Download Google WalletGoogle Wallet This link will open in a new window from the Google Play Store.
Open the Google Wallet app on your phone and tap the '+' sign.
When you're prompted to add a credit or debit card, line up your HSBC UK card within the frame on the screen to capture your card details or enter your card information manually.
Verify your card with a one-time passcode which will be sent to you by text message.
Once it's verified, your HSBC UK card is ready to use with Google Pay.
There is no limit to the number of cards you can add to your device. The same card can be added on up to 8 devices.
Smartwatch 
On your watch, open the Google Wallet app .
Tap ’Get started’.
Set up screen lock (if you haven't already).
On your phone, follow the instructions to add a credit or debit card. Note: This only adds a card to the Google Wallet app on your watch (not your phone).
Your card will show up on your watch.
Note: At this time, you can't add a discount, loyalty, or rewards card to Google Pay on your watch.
How to pay 
Most of the time, you don’t need a mobile data or Wi-Fi connection to use Google Pay. Sometimes you may need to connect to the internet, for example after a device restart.
In stores 
To pay with Google Pay in stores using your phone, just wake the device and hold it against the contactless payment terminal. You may need to unlock for some transactions (for example, when transactions exceed £100).
To pay with Google Pay using your watch, open the Google Wallet app and hold your watch over the contactless payment reader until you hear a sound or feel vibration from your watch.
The first card added to Google Pay will be the default card. Payments will be made from your default card; you can change this at any time by selecting the alternative card and tapping 'Set as default card'.
In apps and on websites 
To pay with Google Pay in participating apps and on websites:
Select 'Buy with Google Pay', authenticate using your unlock method, and your payment will be processed quickly and securely (additional verification may be required).
The default Google Pay card will be displayed on the initial purchase. You can choose a different card which will then become the main card for payments within that app; this could be different from the default card used for in store transactions. 
Your default card 
The first payment method you add to Google Pay becomes your default way to pay for all in-store purchases. If you want to change your default card, follow these steps.
Phone 
Open the Google Wallet app.
At the top, find and select the card you want to use as your default card.
Tap ‘Make default’.
Smartwatch 
On your watch, open the Google Wallet app.
Scroll to the card you want to use as default and then tap it.
From the bottom, swipe up on ‘More’.
Tap ‘Set as default card’.
Frequently Asked Questions
Which HSBC UK cards and which devices are compatible with Google Pay? 
Most HSBC UK credit and debit cards are eligible for Google Pay, subject to status.
HSBC UK Premier Credit Card
HSBC UK Visa Credit Card
HSBC UK Mastercard Credit Card
HSBC UK Welsh Credit Card
HSBC UK Student Credit Card
HSBC UK Student Welsh Credit Card
Your Bank at Morrisons Credit Card
HSBC UK Platinum Credit Card
HSBC UK Gold Visa Credit Card
HSBC UK Gold Mastercard Card
HSBC UK Visa Debit Card
HSBC UK Advance Debit Card
HSBC UK Premier Visa Debit Card
HSBC UK Premier World Elite Credit Card
HSBC UK Classic Credit Card
HSBC UK Rewards Credit Card
HSBC UK Global Money Debit Card
The Google website has a list of which devices you can use with Google Payyou can use with Google Pay This link will open in a new window.
What should I do if I lose my device or my card? 
If your device is lost or stolen, you can find, lock, or erase it using Find My DeviceFind My Device This link will open in a new window. Since Google Pay doesn't store your card details on your phone, anyone who finds or steals your phone won't be able to access that information, even if it's unlocked.
You can also call us on 03456 002 290 to suspend or remove your card from Google Pay.
Lines are open 08:00 to 20:00 every day except for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day. We may monitor or record calls.
If you lose your card, please contact us immediately on 03456 007 010.
If you have a debit card:
Your actual card will be stopped, and you will not be able to continue to use Google Pay with this card.
When we issue you with a new card, you will need to register it with Google Pay again.
If you have a credit card:
Your physical card will be stopped, but you will still be able to use Google Pay for transactions. You won’t need to register your new card with Google Pay as we will update this automatically for you.
Once your new card arrives, you should activate it as soon as possible to continue using Google Pay.

Lines are open from 08:00–20:00 every day. Calls may be monitored or recorded.
What\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/google-pay/
########Top of main content 
Samsung Pay 
Use your HSBC UK card with Samsung Pay 
Secure and simple 
Samsung Pay is a secure and simple way to make mobile payments with selected Samsung devices. Find out more about compatible devicescompatible devices This link will open in a new window.
Use your HSBC UK credit or debit card with Samsung Pay to make payments virtually anywhere you can tap your contactless card. You can also make payments in apps and on websites where you see the Samsung Pay Checkout button. Samsung Pay lets you make purchases above the £100 contactless limit with most retailers too.
Samsung Pay can be used in stores wherever you see these symbols:
We won't charge you for using Samsung Pay, but charges from your mobile network provider may apply, depending on your data plan.
How to add a card 
You’ll need a mobile data or Wi-Fi connection to add a card to Samsung Pay. 
Phone: 
Download Samsung PaySamsung Pay This link will open in a new window from the Galaxy Store.
Open the Samsung Pay app.
Tap ‘Menu’ in the top left corner, and then tap ‘Cards’.
Next, tap ‘Add card’ (blue +card icon), and then tap ‘Add credit/debit card’.
Scan your HSBC UK credit or debit card information, or enter the details manually.
In some cases you’ll have to verify your card with a one-time passcode which will be sent to you by text message.
Once you've verified your card, you're ready to make contactless payments on the go.
Smartwatch: 
If you have the Samsung Pay app on your phone, you can either import cards onto your watch from your phone or add cards manually via your phone to pay using your watch.
Open the Galaxy Wearable app on the phone connected to your watch.
Tap the Home tab, and then swipe to and tap ’Samsung Pay’.
Next, you can tap ‘Import cards’ to import your card from the Samsung Pay app on your phone onto your watch. Then follow on-screen instructions to verify your card.
You can also select ‘Add credit or debit card’ and scan your HSBC UK credit or debit card information, or enter your card details manually.
In some cases you’ll have to verify your card with a one-time passcode which will be sent to you by text message.
Once you've verified your card, you're ready to make payments using your watch.
How to pay 
Most of the time, you don’t need a mobile data or Wi-Fi connection to use Google Pay. Sometimes you may need to connect to the internet, for example after a device restart.
In shops 
To pay in shops with your phone, simply swipe up on the screen or open the Samsung Pay app from your home screen. Select the card you want to pay with, hold the device near the contactless reader and authenticate your payment using Iris scanner (on compatible devices), fingerprint or your Samsung Pay PIN.
To pay in shops using your Samsung watch, press and hold the button on the back of your watch and then enter your PIN. Next, rotate the visual bezel to select card and tap ‘PAY’. Hold your watch close to the contactless card reader for the payment to be processed.
In apps and on websites 
To pay within participating apps and websites, select the Samsung Pay Checkout button and authenticate your payment using either Iris scanner (on compatible devices), fingerprint or your Samsung Pay PIN.
Pay on Transport for London (TfL) 
Samsung Pay allows you to set a card up as a ‘Transport card' to use on TfL services. This option means you don't even need to wake your phone or verify with Iris scanner, fingerprint or your Samsung Pay PIN - simply touch the middle section of your phone against the card reader.
You can use this service for pay as you go on London buses, Tube, London Trams, DLR, London Overground, TfL Rail, Emirates Air Line, River Bus and most National Rail services in London.
Frequently Asked Questions
Which HSBC UK cards and which devices are compatible with Samsung Pay? 
Most HSBC UK credit and debit cards are eligible for Samsung Pay, subject to status.
HSBC UK Premier Credit Card
HSBC UK Visa Credit Card
HSBC UK Mastercard Credit Card
HSBC UK Welsh Credit Card
HSBC UK Student Credit Card
HSBC UK Student Welsh Credit Card
Your Bank at Morrisons Credit Card
HSBC UK Platinum Credit Card
HSBC UK Gold Visa Credit Card
HSBC UK Gold Mastercard Card
HSBC UK Visa Debit Card
HSBC UK Advance Debit Card
HSBC UK Premier Visa Debit Card
HSBC UK Premier World Elite Credit Card
HSBC UK Classic Credit Card
HSBC UK Rewards Credit Card
HSBC UK Global Money Debit Card
The Samsung website has a list of which devices you can use with Samsung Payyou can use with Samsung Pay This link will open in a new window.
What should I do if I lose my device or my card? 
If your device is lost or stolen, you can use Samsung's Find My Mobile service to remotely disable your cards on that device.
You can also call us on 03456 002 290 to suspend or remove your card from Samsung Pay.
Lines are open 08:00 to 20:00 every day except for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day. We may monitor or record calls.
If you lose your card, please contact us immediately on 03456 007 010.
When you cancel your card, your physical card will be stopped
When we issue you with a new card, you won’t need to register it with Samsung Pay again as your new card details will be updated automatically
Once your new card arrives, you should activate it as soon as possible to continue using Samsung Pay
Lines are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. We may monitor or record calls.
What happens when I replace or update my device? 
If you replace or update your device, you will need to add your card(s) to Samsung Pay again.
Please ensure that you remove your card(s) from any device before selling, exchanging, or disposing of them. You should also remove your card if you temporarily pass your device to someone else; for example, if you pass it to be repaired.
What happens when my card expires? 
If your card is nearing expiry, we automatically issue a replacement card and update the new card details in Samsung Pay, once you’ve activated your new card. If the\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/samsung-pay/
########Top of main content 
Pay by Bank app 
A simple and secure way to send money for goods and services online 
Use your HSBC UK Mobile Banking app to send money for goods and services 
Use Pay by Bank app and breeze through online checkout using your trusted HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. There’s no need for a separate PIN or password, or to enter your card details at any stage.
Benefits of using Pay by Bank app: 
Automatic enrolment, no registration process 
Checkout is quick and simple, no need to enter card details 
Transaction authorised using your trusted HSBC UK Mobile Banking app for increased security 
Available balance usually updated in real time 
To use Pay by Bank app you’ll need: 
The latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app
To have chosen a Digital Secure Key 
To hold an eligible HSBC UK current account
How to send money for goods and services using Pay by Bank app 
Just follow these simple steps:
One Device 
Shopping on a device which has the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app installed, with Digital Secure Key
iOS
Select the 'Pay by Bank app' option at checkout
If you have more than one banking app installed, select the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app from the options provided 
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app using Face ID, Touch ID or your Digital Secure Key password
Select 'From' to choose the account from which you would like to send money
Review the on screen details, including payee, amount, your chosen account and delivery address if displayed
Once you're happy, select 'Send Money' and confirm the transaction using your Digital Secure Key
Android
Select the 'Pay by Bank app' option at checkout
If you have more than one banking app installed, select the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app from the options provided 
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app using Android Fingerprint or your Digital Secure Key password
Select 'From' to choose the account from which you would like to send money
Review the on screen details, including payee, amount, your chosen account and delivery address if displayed
Once you're happy tick 'I confirm the transaction details are correct'
Select 'Send Money' and confirm the transaction using your Digital Secure Key
Two Devices 
Shopping on a device which does not have the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app installed
iOS
Select the 'Pay by Bank app' option at checkout
You will be provided with a 6-letter code
On your eligible device, log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app using Face ID, Touch ID or your Digital Secure Key password
Select the 'Move Money' tab
Select 'Pay by Bank app'
Enter the 6-letter code provided to you at checkout and select 'Continue'
Select 'From' to choose the account from which you would like to send money
Review the on screen details, including payee, amount, your chosen account and delivery address if displayed
Once you're happy, select 'Send Money' and confirm the transaction using your Digital Secure Key
Android
Select the 'Pay by Bank app' option at checkout
You will be provided with a 6-letter code
On your eligible device, log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app using Android Fingerprint or your Digital Secure Key password
Select the 'Move Money' tab
Select 'Pay by Bank app'
Enter the 6-letter code provided to you at checkout and select 'Continue'
Select 'From' to choose the account from which you would like to send money
Review the on screen details, including payee, amount, your chosen account and delivery address if displayed
Once you're happy tick 'I confirm the transaction details are correct'
Select 'Send Money' and confirm the transaction using your Digital Secure Key
Frequently Asked Questions 
Q. Which devices are compatible with Pay by Bank app? 
Pay by Bank app is compatible with any digital device that the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app currently supports. 
Q. Which HSBC accounts can be used with Pay by Bank app? 
HSBC UK retail current accounts are eligible for Pay by Bank app, subject to status.
Q. Is Pay by Bank app secure to use? 
Yes. It's a safe way to send money because you have to log on securely to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app to confirm the transaction. To do this, you need to use Face ID, Touch ID, Android Fingerprint or your Digital Secure Key password. Find out more about our Digital Secure Key here.
Q. What if I lose my phone? 
(iOS) As soon as possible, log on to iCloud (iCloud.com) and remotely wipe your device by activating the "Find my iPhone" app, selecting the lost device and erasing the data on it.
(Android) As soon as possible, log on to your Google Account (android.com/find) and remotely lock or erase your device.
Q. What are the maximum transaction limits using Pay by Bank app? 
You can make transactions up to £10,000 per payee, per account, per day.
Q. The Pay by Bank app six-letter code has expired. Why? 
For your security there are set time limits in order for you to complete your Pay by Bank app transaction. If your code has expired, please return to where you initiated the transaction to acquire a new code.
Q. The wrong address has been used and I can’t change it. What should I do? 
Pay by Bank app will use the address provided by the payee. If a different address is required, please refer to the app/site in which you placed the order. If order confirmation has already been provided please contact the payee as HSBC cannot change the address. 
Q. How do I return an item purchased using Pay by Bank app? 
If an item needs to be returned, please contact the payee that the item was purchased from. They will initiate the refund where valid.
Q. I don’t recognise a Pay by Bank app transaction, how can I dispute it? 
If you do not recognise a Pay by Bank app transaction this can be disputed through HSBC within 13 months of the transaction date. Please contact us on 03457 404 404*.
If you do recognise the transaction, but wish to dispute it for any other reason, HSBC can initiate an inquiry with the payee within 90 days of the transaction date. Otherwise please contact the payee directly.
Q. Who ca\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/pay-by-bank-app/
########Top of main content 
Mobile banking 
Tap into a smart way of managing your accounts 
Download the app 
Banking from the palm of your hand 
The HSBC UK Mobile Banking app lets you manage your accounts easily and securely from a time and a place that suits you. Discover an ever growing range of services and features on the app to make your banking more convenient.
Download the app 
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
Why use the app?
Plan ahead
Use our money management tools to stay on track of your spending and work towards your future goals.
Chat with us
Chat with us at a time that’s convenient for you with 24/7 support on mobile chat. 
Deposit cheques
Pay one or more cheques into your eligible HSBC account with a limit of £2,000 per day.
Confirm online card payments
Keep yourself safe from fraud by confirming online card payments in the app.
Key App Features 
Check out some of the key features of our mobile app:
Digital Secure Key 
Get peace of mind and convenience with a Digital Secure Key. 
Mobile statements 
View and download global versions of your statements. 
Biometrics 
A simple and secure way to log on to our mobile banking app. 
Easy transfer and payments 
Move money between your accounts, send money to friends and family and pay bills. 
Mobile app on multiple devices 
Access the full app on up to 3 devices, adding or removing them at any time. 
Freeze your card 
You can temporarily freeze your card if you've lost it but think it might turn up. It's easy to unfreeze it once you find it. 
For a full list of features, read our guide to banking from home.
Getting started 
Watch our short video on how to set up the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app for the first time.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Download the app 
Tap the logo you need or scan the QR code, and it’ll take you straight to the app in your app store.
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
Security and protection 
Our Secure Key gives you added protection when you’re using mobile banking because it generates a code which only you will have access to. You must enter this code as well as your normal username and password.
This is known as two factor authentication.
Find out more about staying safe when banking digitally.
Find out more on how to register for digital banking 
When you register for digital banking, you’ll opt out automatically of receiving paper copies of certain statements and documents.
You’re welcome to opt back in to receiving these. Just go to ‘Communication preferences’ in online banking or contact us
Frequently asked questions 
Why can’t I generate a security code? 
When an update is completed for an app or iOS or Android operating system on a device with low memory, some apps are removed and then reinstalled. If our app is removed, you’ll need to set up a new Digital Secure Key.
You can use our digital banking help tooldigital banking help tool This link will open in a new window to help if you’re having trouble with your Digital Secure Key. 
If you don’t have a valid UK mobile number or email address recorded with us or they’ve been updated recently, you may not be able to complete this process immediately. Please contact us on 03456 002 29003456 002 290 This link will open in a new window (+44 1226 261 22644 1226 261 226 This link will open in a new window) if you need more help setting up your Digital Secure Key.
What devices can I use the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app on? 
Our mobile banking app is available on iPhones and iPads running iOS 13 or higher, but you need to be on iOS 14 or higher to use our latest features.
On Android devices, the app is available on Android 7.0, but you need to be using Android 8.0 or higher to use our latest features.
If you’re using an older operating system, please update it using the settings on your device.
If you can’t use the mobile app, you can ask for a physical Secure Key so you can access online banking. You can do this by calling 03456 002 29003456 002 290 This link will open in a new window or by visiting your local branch. Please allow up to 10 working days for delivery.
How do I set up the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app on a new device? 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
What if I've forgotten or locked my Secure Key PIN? 
Digital Secure Key:
If you’ve forgotten your Digital Secure Key PIN, open the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, select the ‘Forgotten Digital Secure Key PIN’ link and follow the on-screen instructions to set up a new PIN.
If you've locked your Digital Secure Key, open the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, select the 'Reset Digital Secure Key PIN' option and follow the on-screen instructions to reset.
Physical Secure Key:
If you enter an incorrect PIN, you'll see the message 'FAIL 1'. Press the green button to enter your PIN again. You'll have 3 attempts to enter your PIN correctly. After the 3rd incorrect attempt ('FAIL 3'), the Secure Key will become locked and will display a 7-digit code on screen whenever it's turned on.
To continue using online banking, you’ll need to reset your PIN. To do this, go to our online banking log on page, enter your username, \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/
########Top of main content 
Overdrafts 
Be prepared for life's unexpected costs with an arranged overdraft 
Need a hand with the rising cost of living? We are offering temporary support measures on overdraft borrowing across eligible accounts. Just request support by 27 April 2024.
Check out our Overdraft Support page to find out more and fill out the online request form.
close 
A financial safety net, just in case you need it 
If you need a little money to tide you over or cover unexpected expenses, an arranged overdraft can be a useful way of borrowing for the short term.
Get text alerts if you're about to go overdrawn 
If you've given us your mobile number, we'll let you know if you've gone overdrawn or if we know you're about to.11 view footnote 1 
Enjoy peace of mind with an interest-free buffer 
Most of our accounts (excluding Basic Bank Account) come with a buffer of £25 or more. So if a payment takes you a few pounds overdrawn, you won't have to pay any interest. 
Receive an instant decision if you've already got an account 
You can apply for a new or increased overdraft online or in our app. If you’re accepted, your funds will be available straight away. 
Stay in control 
You can reduce your arranged overdraft limit or ask to increase it in our app or online banking. Note: if you're already overdrawn, you can't reduce your limit to less than you've borrowed. 
How much does an HSBC overdraft cost? 
Our arranged overdrafts have an interest rate of 39.9% EAR (variable), with an interest-free buffer of at least £25. As an example, if you have an HSBC Bank Account (which has a £25 interest-free buffer) and borrow £1,200 for 30 days, it would cost you £32.88 in interest.22 view footnote 2
Representative example 
0% EAR (variable) 
on the first £25
39.9% EAR (variable) 
above £25
38.9% APR (variable) 
representative rate
Based on an assumed arranged overdraft of £1,200 for an HSBC Bank Account.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
What do EAR and APR mean? 
EAR stands for effective annual rate. This is how all UK banks must show interest rates on their overdrafts, to make it easier for you to compare one bank’s overdraft with another. It doesn't take into account any fees you might be charged in addition to interest.
APR stands for annual percentage rate. This is the rate at which someone who is borrowing money is charged, calculated over a period of 12 months. It takes into account not just the interest, but also any other charges you may have to pay, as well as any interest-free amount.
How an overdraft works 
An overdraft is a way of borrowing money through your current account.
You’ll go into an overdraft if you make a withdrawal or a purchase that takes you below your available balance. In other words, if your account goes below £0, you’re into your overdraft.
If you've agreed an overdraft limit with us in advance, it's known as an 'arranged overdraft'. If you haven't – or if you've gone past your arranged limit – it's known as an 'unarranged overdraft'.
Most of our accounts (except our Basic Bank Account) come with an interest-free buffer. If you borrow more than this, you'll need to pay interest on the amount you've borrowed.
Tools to help you 
Overdraft eligibility checker Overdraft eligibility checker This link will open in a new window 
Overdraft calculator 
Useful documents 
Making sense of overdrafts (PDF, 390 KB) Making sense of overdrafts (PDF, 390 KB) Download 
Privacy notice (PDF, 137 KB) Privacy notice (PDF, 137 KB) Download 
FSCS information sheet and exclusions list (PDF, 177 KB) FSCS information sheet and exclusions list (PDF, 177 KB) Download 
HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) Download 
Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Download 
Important notes Important notes Opens in overlay 
Apply for an arranged overdraft 
To apply for an arranged overdraft you’ll need to be 18 or over. All overdrafts are repayable on demand. Credit is subject to status.
Already got a current account with us? 
Apply for an arranged overdraft through online banking or with our app. Please note that overdrafts aren't available with our Basic Bank Account.
Apply for an arranged overdraft Apply for an arranged overdraft This link will open in a new window 
Prefer to apply by phone or in branch? 
Because of the coronavirus situation, we’re advising customers to apply for or manage their overdraft online at the moment, if you can.
If that isn’t possible, please call us on 03456 040 626 or make an appointment to see us in branch.
Our lines are open 08:00 to 20:00 every day except Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day.
Find your nearest branch 
Manage your existing overdraft 
For information on managing your existing overdraft or any support you may need, visit our Overdrafts hub below.
Manage my overdraft Manage my overdraft This link will open in a new window 
Don't have a current account with us? 
If you don't bank with us yet, you'll need to open a current account. You can then apply for an arranged overdraft as part of your application.
Explore our current accounts 
Frequently asked questions 
Will using or applying for an overdraft affect my credit rating? 
Using an overdraft 
Using an arranged overdraft is unlikely to have a major impact on your credit rating, as long as you don’t go beyond your arranged limit or have payments refused.
However, if you use an unarranged overdraft regularly or continuously for 30 or more days, it could have a negative affect on your credit rating. That’s because this shows lenders you may be struggling financially.
Applying for an overdraft 
Applying for an overdraft as a one-off won’t affect your credit rating under normal circumstances. However, if you make several app\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/overdrafts/
########Top of main content 
Overdraft calculator 
See how much it could cost you to use a personal overdraft facility on your account 
Tell us about your overdraft needs 
You can use our calculator to find out how much an overdraft through your HSBC current account could cost over a period of up to 31 days.
An overdraft is a short-term credit facility for borrowing money on your current account. It can help in months where there are extra expenses and unplanned events. Overdrafts are not generally suitable for long-term borrowing. Use of an overdraft will normally result in you being charged interest.
Overdrafts are subject to status and aren't available if you're under 18 or hold an HSBC Basic Bank Account. The figures displayed are given as a guide only. They are based on assumptions rather than precise calculations.
If you have any further queries, or need help understanding your overdraft, please visit our FAQsFAQs FAQs Frequently asked questions section.
Overdraft calculator
See how much it could cost if you go overdrawn on your HSBC current account. These calculations are based on the figures you’ve input.
Choose your account type
Choose your account type in the dropdown
Bank Account
Advance 
Bank Account
Bank Account Pay Monthly
Student
Graduate Year 1
Graduate Year 2
Premier 
Premier (retained Jade benefits)
Private Banking Account
Current Account
Arranged overdraft limit
Enter a value between 0 and 3,000
This is a Arranged overdraft limit fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
1,500
GBP 0
GBP 3,000
Total amount overdrawn
Enter a value between 0 and 3,300
This is a Total amount overdrawn fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
1,500
GBP 0
GBP 3,300
Number of days overdrawn
Enter a value between 1 and 31
This is a Number of days overdrawn fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
1 day
31 days
Summary
Interest-free amount
GBP 25.00
Overdraft interest rate (EAR variable)
39.90%
Total arranged overdraft charges
GBP 1.38
Total unarranged overdraft charges
GBP 0.00
Total cost of overdraft
GBP 1.38
Representative example: Based on an assumed arranged overdraft of £1,200 for an HSBC Bank Account, the rate is 0% EAR (variable) on the first £25, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative rate of 38.9% APR (variable).
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
Calculator assumptions 
the amount borrowed is drawn down in full at noon on the date of calculation
you are overdrawn for a continuous period – you don’t dip in and out of your overdraft
at the time you go into your overdraft the balance of your current account is £0
no other credits and or debits will be made from the account during the borrowing period
the outstanding balance will be repaid in full on the last day of the borrowing period
the interest rate will remain the same during the whole borrowing period
Glossary of terms 
overdraft interest rate - This is the interest rate that currently applies to borrowing under an overdraft. EAR stands for equivalent annual rate. It takes account of the interest rate and how often interest is charged, and does not include any other fees or charges
how to find your overdraft limit – If you are an existing customer you can view your overdraft limit by logging on to online banking or the mobile app or on a recent statement
How much does my overdraft cost in pounds and pence? 
Here are some examples of how much it would cost if you borrowed £500 of your agreed overdraft: 
Account 7 days 30 days 60 days 
Bank Account	£3.10	£13.29	£26.59	
Advance Bank Account	£3.10	£13.29
	£26.59	
Graduate Bank Account	£0.00	£0.00
	£0.00	
Bank Account Pay Monthly	£3.10	£13.29	£26.59	
Current Account (no longer on sale)	£3.10	£13.29
	£26.59	
Premier Account (retained Jade benefits)	£0.00	£0.00
	£0.00	
Private Banking Account £0.00	£0.00
	£0.00	
HSBC Premier Bank Account
	£0.00	£0.00
	£0.00	
Student Bank Account	£0.00	£0.00
	£0.00	
How much does my overdraft cost in pounds and pence? 
Here are some examples of how much it would cost if you borrowed £500 of your agreed overdraft: 
Account Bank Account	
7 days £3.10	
30 days £13.29	
60 days £26.59	
	
Account Advance Bank Account	
7 days £3.10	
30 days £13.29
	
60 days £26.59	
	
Account Graduate Bank Account	
7 days £0.00	
30 days £0.00
	
60 days £0.00	
	
Account Bank Account Pay Monthly	
7 days £3.10	
30 days £13.29	
60 days £26.59	
	
Account Current Account (no longer on sale)	
7 days £3.10	
30 days £13.29
	
60 days £26.59	
	
Account Premier Account (retained Jade benefits)	
7 days £0.00	
30 days £0.00
	
60 days £0.00	
	
Account Private Banking Account	
7 days £0.00	
30 days £0.00
	
60 days £0.00	
	
Account HSBC Premier Bank Account
	
7 days £0.00	
30 days £0.00
	
60 days £0.00	
	
Account Student Bank Account	
7 days £0.00	
30 days £0.00
	
60 days £0.00	
Unarranged Overdraft Interest 
We will normally charge you unarranged overdraft interest of 39.9% EAR variable on any day your account is in unarranged overdraft. We won’t charge unarranged overdraft interest if covering funds are paid in before the end of the day (defined as 23:45).
We won't charge you more in unarranged overdraft interest than the maximum unarranged overdraft agreed in that charging month. For example, the cost of a £15 unarranged overdraft will be limited to £15.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft interest for your account is £20.
A charging month normally starts on the day of the month you originally opened your account.
Unarranged overdrafts 
You’ll have to pay interest if you have an unarranged overdraft. The overdraft costs table displays the amount of interest that ap\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/overdraft-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Balance transfer credit cards 
Give yourself some breathing room with our balance transfer options 
What is a balance transfer credit card? 
A balance transfer card could save you money when you move your balance from one or more existing cards.
How a balance transfer credit card can help you 
Transfer balances from other cards 
You may be able to save money - by moving what you owe on to a card with a lower interest rate.
Simplify your cards 
Transfer your other credit card balances so that you make just one monthly payment for everything.
Keep your credit card costs low 
Balance transfer fees apply, but there are no annual fees.
Explore our balance transfer credit cards
Balance Transfer Credit Card
Enjoy up to 24 months interest-free for balance transfers (3.49% fee, min £5).
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Apply now Apply now for Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Purchase Plus Credit Card
Discover the all-rounder that has up to 18 months of interest-free purchases and up to 16 months of interest-free balance transfers (3.49% fee, minimum £5).
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Apply now Apply now for Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Premier Credit Card
Get travel benefits and reward points - plus 9 months interest free on purchases and 18 months interest free on balance transfers (2.99% fee, min £5). Just for HSBC Premier customers.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Apply now Apply now for Premier Credit Card 
Need help choosing a credit card? 
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one most suitable for you.
Compare cards 
Not the right type of card?
Purchase credit cards
Buy now and spread the cost of all your purchases - large or small.
Credit-builder credit cards
Help build your credit score when you spend and make on-time repayments.
View all cards
From transferring a balance, earning rewards or building your credit score, there's a card for every need.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/balance-transfer-credit-cards/
########Top of main content 
Online banking 
Open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year 
Log on or register 
Online banking is quick, convenient and secure. Log on to access your accounts whenever you want, wherever you are.
Log on Log on This link will open in a new window Register 
4 great reasons to try online banking 
Simple and secure 
Log on with your Secure Key for easy access to your accounts.
Paperless statements 
Access up to 6 years' worth of transactions.
Easy payments and transfers 
Move your money or make payments to accounts in the UK or overseas.
Bank from home 
Carry out a wide range of tasks whenever it's most convenient for you.
What else can you do with online banking? 
Cards
Activate your card, replace it, report it lost or stolen, or add a temporary block.
Confirmation of Payee
Confirmation of Payee is a name-checking service offered to protect you from scams and reduce the number of payments sent by mistake.
Standing orders
Set up, amend or cancel a standing order.
Direct Debits
Manage your regular payments.
Overdrafts
Apply to increase, decrease or remove your overdraft.
Update your details
Change the address and contact details on your account.
What other people are asking 
What is digital banking? 
Here's a short video giving you some more information about digital banking.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
How do I reset my online banking details? 
If you're locked out of mobile or online banking, you can reset your log on details using our Digital banking help toolDigital banking help tool This link will open in a new window.
How do I update my personal details in online banking? 
To update your personal details:
Log on to online banking using your Secure Key.
Select your name in the navigation bar.
Choose 'Personal and address details'.
Choose 'Edit' under the section you wish to update and follow the instructions.
How do I download a statement? 
To download a statement: 
Log on to online banking with your Secure Key.
Pick the account you want to see a statement from.
Select 'Manage' and then 'Statements'.
Search by date and view or download any of your previous statements.
Did you know, you can also get statements on your mobile banking app. Find out more about mobile and online statements.
How do I search for a transaction? 
To view a specific transaction, use 'Search' - you'll find it above your transaction list. This can only be used for your most recent transactions.
Explore more
Open banking
The new way to share account information and make payments online.
Security centre
Get support on fraud and scams.
Protect your money
See some easy ways to keep yourself safe online.
Mobile banking
Manage your accounts simply and securely from your mobile phone.
Telephone banking
Do your banking over the phone with our 24 hour automated service.
Branch banking
Locate your nearest branch and find out what you can do in person. 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/online-banking/
########Top of main content 
Purchase credit cards 
Buy now and spread the cost of all your purchases - large or small 
What is a purchase credit card? 
Our purchase credit cards are designed to help you spread out your costs. Buy now and pay back gradually over time.
How a purchase credit card can help you 
Buy what you need now 
Use a purchase credit card today, then pay off what you owe - without paying interest on it.
Spread your costs over time 
Buy the things you need now and pay off the amount you owe gradually over time.
Purchase protection 
Section 75 protects credit card purchases of £100 to £30,000 if the supplier breaches a contract, or misrepresents goods.
Explore our purchase credit cards
Purchase Plus Credit Card
Discover the all-rounder that has up to 18 months of interest-free purchases and up to 16 months of interest-free balance transfers (3.49% fee, minimum £5).
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Apply now Apply now for Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Rewards Credit Card
Earn reward points on eligible purchases you make.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Apply now Apply now for Rewards Credit Card 
Premier Credit Card
Get travel benefits and reward points - plus 9 months interest free on purchases and 18 months interest free on balance transfers (2.99% fee, min £5). Just for HSBC Premier customers.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Apply now Apply now for Premier Credit Card 
Need help choosing a credit card? 
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one most suitable for you.
Compare cards 
Not the right type of card?
Balance transfer credit cards
Give yourself some breathing room with our balance transfer options.
Rewards credit cards
Discover our range of rewards cards.
Credit-builder credit cards
Help build your credit score when you spend and make on-time repayments.
View all cards
From transferring a balance, earning rewards or building your credit score, there's a card for every need.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/purchase-credit-cards/
########Top of main content 
Credit-builder credit cards 
Help build your credit score when you spend and make on-time repayments 
What is a credit-builder credit card? 
A credit-builder credit card helps you build or improve your credit score as you make purchases and then make repayments on time.
How a credit-builder credit card can help you 
Use your card to spend carefully 
Build your credit score by using your card, but make sure you don't use all of the credit available to you every month.
Pay back as much as you can 
You'll pay less interest if you pay back the total every month. If you can't, it still makes sense to pay more than the minimum - as this reduces the interest you'll pay. 
Repay on time 
If you stay up to date with your repayments, your credit score is likely to improve. A Direct Debit can help make sure your repayments are always on time.
Explore our credit-builder credit cards 
Classic Credit Card
Improve or start building your credit rating.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 29.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 29.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,000
Apply now Apply now for a Classic Credit Card 
Student Credit Card
Enjoy a purpose-built card for existing HSBC Student Bank account holders.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 18.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £500
Apply now Apply now for a Student Credit Card 
Balance Transfer Credit Card
Enjoy our longest interest-free period for balance transfers (3.49% fee, min £5).
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Apply now Apply now for a Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Need help choosing a credit card? 
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one most suitable for you.
Compare cards 
Not the right type of card? 
Purchase credit cards
Buy now and spread the cost of all your purchases - large or small.
Balance transfer credit cards
Give yourself some breathing room with our balance transfer options.
Rewards credit cards
Discover our range of rewards cards.
View all cards
From transferring a balance, earning rewards or building your credit score, there's a card for every need.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/credit-builder-credit-cards/
########Top of main content 
Rewards credit cards 
Discover our range of rewards cards 
What is a rewards credit card? 
Rewards cards earn you points as you use them. Then you can spend your points on shopping, travel and much more.
Rewards Credit Card representative 23.9% APR (variable).
How a rewards credit card can help you 
Earn Reward points 
See your Reward points stack up as you use your card.
Make your rewards work for you 
Your Reward points can pay you back in a range of ways, whether it's for shopping, travel or leisure.
Get rewarded when you shop 
Rewards aren't just for big purchases - your everyday spending counts too.
Explore our rewards credit cards
Rewards Credit Card
Earn reward points on eligible purchases you make.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Apply now Apply now for Rewards Credit Card 
Premier Credit Card
Get travel benefits, rewards and HSBC Premier Privileges - just for HSBC Premier customers.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Apply now Apply now for Premier Credit Card 
Premier World Elite Mastercard
Designed for the dedicated traveller - exclusive to existing HSBC Premier and Jade customers.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 59.3% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Annual fee: £195
Apply now Apply now for Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Need help choosing a credit card? 
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one most suitable for you.
Compare cards 
Not the right type of card?
Purchase credit cards
Buy now and spread the cost of all your purchases - large or small.
Balance transfer credit cards
Give yourself some breathing room with our balance transfer options.
Credit-builder credit cards
Help build your credit score when you spend and make on-time repayments.
View all cards
From transferring a balance, earning rewards or building your credit score, there's a card for every need.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/rewards-credit-cards/
########Top of main content 
Ways to borrow 
Find out how we can help you get the funds you need 
Use our tool to learn about some of the best ways to borrow 
Answer a few simple questions and we'll let you know whether to consider a credit card, loan, overdraft or mortgage for your borrowing needs.
Get started 
Personal loans 
A loan is where you borrow a set amount of money for an agreed amount of time. You pay back the full amount – usually in monthly instalments – plus interest. For most fixed-term loans, the amount you pay and the rate of interest is fixed at the outset and won’t change until it’s paid off.
Pros 
Suitable for large purchases or consolidating existing borrowing 
You know exactly how much you need to repay each month 
Cons 
Less suitable for smaller purchases eg less than £1,000 
Less suitable for short-term borrowing eg less than a year 
Next steps 
Loans explained: everything you need to know 
Things to check before you apply for a loan 
Compare our loans 
Credit cards 
You can use a credit card to spend up to an agreed credit limit and pay it back later. If you owe money, you have to make at least a minimum payment – a percentage of what you owe – each month. If you don’t repay it in full each month, you’ll usually be charged interest.
Pros 
Some cards offer interest-free purchase or balance transfer periods and reward programs 
Flexible monthly repayments 
Cons 
Interest can stack up over time if you only make the minimum payment each month 
Next steps 
How to apply for a credit card 
How do credit cards work? 
Credit card fees rates and charges 
Compare our credit cards 
Overdrafts 
Bank accounts with arranged overdrafts let you continue spending money from your current account when your balance falls below £0. To help you manage unexpected bills, your arranged overdraft will usually include an interest-free buffer. But once you pass that amount, you’ll be charged interest.
Pros 
Some bank accounts offer interest-free buffers on their arranged overdrafts 
Emergency budgeting 
Cons 
Not good for long-term or regular borrowing 
High interest rate, where interest is charged 
Next steps 
Overdrafts explained: everything you need to know 
Overdraft calculator 
Apply for an overdraft 
Borrow more on your mortgage 
Borrowing more on your mortgage involves taking on more lending from your current mortgage lender. Typically with a mortgage, you'll pay the loan back on a monthly basis and you'll need to make sure you can afford your repayment because it is secured against your home.
Consider this option for larger purchases with repayment over a longer period, typically over £10k and 60 months.
Pros 
Frees up funds for large purchases 
Usually lower interest rates with longer repayment periods available 
Cons 
Paid back over longer period therefore could pay more interest 
Secured against your home, so you could lose it if you miss payments 
Next steps 
What is home equity? 
Apply for a home loan 
Think carefully before securing debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up with repayments on your mortgage.
Find the right option for you 
Depending on what you want to do, some borrowing options are more suitable than others. Which one is right for you will depend on your personal circumstances. You need to consider your borrowing needs, how much you want to borrow, how long you need to pay it back and your current financial situation.
Here are some of the most common reasons to borrow money and how you could fund them. Other options may be available, if you're uncertain which one is best for you, please speak to an adviser. We also have a useful guide to Buy now pay later (BNPL), explaining how it works and whether it might affect your credit score.
Reason to borrow Credit card Personal loan Overdraft 
Borrow more on your mortgage
This borrowing is secured against your property.
Buying a car Yes (if the car's low value, or there's a purchase offer on card
	Yes	No	Yes (for larger purchases with repayment over a longer period)
	
Holiday and flights Yes	Yes	No	Yes (for larger purchases with repayment over a longer period)
	
Day-to-day spending 
Yes
(if you repay your balances each month)
	No	No	No	
DIY projects Yes	Yes	No	Yes (for larger purchases with repayment over a longer period)
	
Buying appliances or technology Yes	Yes	No	No	
Debt consolidation Yes (if there's a balance transfer offer)	Yes	No	Yes (for larger loans with repayment over a longer period)
	
Vehicle repairs Yes	Yes	
Yes
(if cost can be repaid in the short-term)
	No	
Unexpected household / utility bills Yes	No	Yes	No	
Moving costs Yes	Yes	No	No	
Home renovation / improvements No	Yes	No	Yes (for larger projects with repayment over a longer period)
	
Wedding expenses Yes	Yes	No	Yes (for large expenses with repayment over a longer period)
	
Find the right option for you 
Depending on what you want to do, some borrowing options are more suitable than others. Which one is right for you will depend on your personal circumstances. You need to consider your borrowing needs, how much you want to borrow, how long you need to pay it back and your current financial situation.
Here are some of the most common reasons to borrow money and how you could fund them. Other options may be available, if you're uncertain which one is best for you, please speak to an adviser. We also have a useful guide to Buy now pay later (BNPL), explaining how it works and whether it might affect your credit score.
Reason to borrow Buying a car	
Credit card Yes (if the car's low value, or there's a purchase offer on card
	
Personal loan Yes	
Overdraft No	
Borrow more on your mortgage
This borrowing is secured against your property.
Yes (for larger purchases with repayment over a longer period)
	
	
Reason to borrow Holiday and flights	
Credit card Yes	
Personal loan Yes	
Overdraft No	
Borrow more on your mortgage
This borrowing is secured against your property.
Yes (for larger purchases with repayment over a longer period)
	
	\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/ways-to-borrow/
########Top of main content 
Premier Credit Cards 
See what our HSBC Premier Credit Cards can offer you 
As an HSBC Premier customer, you could qualify for your choice of a fee paying or non-fee paying card offering different levels of rewards. 
Our Premier Credit Cards 
Premier Credit Card 
Rewards 
• For every £1 of eligible spend11 view footnote 1: you’ll earn 1 point if it’s in sterling22 view footnote 2 or 2 points if it’s in another currency33 view footnote3 (fees apply). You can redeem these reward points for retail e-vouchers, airline miles, fine wines and more to help you get the most from life 
Other benefits 
• Priority Pass membership means you can relax in over 1,300 airport lounges worldwide for just £24 per person per visit, subject to availability.
• 2 years extended warranty provided by Domestic & General Insurance PLC, on selected household appliances44 View footnote
Representative Example
23.9% APR (variable) representative
23.9% p.a. (variable) purchase rate
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions.
Are you eligible? Are you eligible? Opens in overlay 
Please ensure you read the important information in the ‘Things you should know’ section before applying.6
Find out more Find out more about Premier Credit Card 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Double Rewards 
• For every £1 of eligible spend11 view footnote 1: you’ll earn 2 points if it’s in sterling22 view footnote 2 , or 4 points if it’s in another currency33 view footnote 3 (fees apply). You can redeem these reward points for retail e-vouchers, airline miles, fine wines and more to help you get the most from life
• Earn welcome and anniversary points with the Premier World Elite Credit card
Enhanced Travel Benefits 
• Gain unlimited complimentary access to over 1,300 airport lounges worldwide with Priority Pass membership. 
Representative Example
59.3% APR (variable) representative
18.9% p.a. (variable) purchase rate
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200 with an annual fee of £195
Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions.
Are you eligible? Are you eligible? Opens in overlay 
Please ensure you read the important information in the ‘Things you should know’ section before applying.
Find out more Find out more about Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Quick comparison 
Card Feature Premier Credit Card Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Annual Fee	£0	£195	
Cash Fee	2.99% fee, minimum £3	2.99% fee, minimum £3	
Balance Transfer Fee	2.99% fee, minimum £5	As set out in any offer made to you	
Representative Example (on an assumed credit limit of £1200)	
23.9% APR (variable)
Representative
23.9% p.a (variable)
purchase rate
	
59.3% APR (variable)
Representative
18.9% p.a (variable)
purchase rate
	
Other Benefits5	
10% discount on selected hotels with Expedia
10% discount on selected hotels with Agoda
12 months complimentary Expedia+ Gold membership
Extended warranty cover4 (provided by Domestic & General Insurance PLC; terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions apply)
	
10% discount on selected hotels with Expedia
10% discount on selected hotels with Agoda
12 months complimentary Expedia+ Gold membership
	
Quick comparison 
Card Feature Annual Fee	
Premier Credit Card £0	
Premier World Elite Mastercard £195	
	
Card Feature Cash Fee	
Premier Credit Card 2.99% fee, minimum £3	
Premier World Elite Mastercard 2.99% fee, minimum £3	
	
Card Feature Balance Transfer Fee	
Premier Credit Card 2.99% fee, minimum £5	
Premier World Elite Mastercard As set out in any offer made to you	
	
Card Feature Representative Example (on an assumed credit limit of £1200)	
Premier Credit Card 
23.9% APR (variable)
Representative
23.9% p.a (variable)
purchase rate
	
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
59.3% APR (variable)
Representative
18.9% p.a (variable)
purchase rate
	
	
Card Feature Other Benefits5	
Premier Credit Card 
10% discount on selected hotels with Expedia
10% discount on selected hotels with Agoda
12 months complimentary Expedia+ Gold membership
Extended warranty cover4 (provided by Domestic & General Insurance PLC; terms, conditions, limitations and exclusions apply)
	
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
10% discount on selected hotels with Expedia
10% discount on selected hotels with Agoda
12 months complimentary Expedia+ Gold membership
	
Things you should know
Summary box (PDF, 189KB) Summary box (PDF, 189KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Download 
Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 64KB) Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 64KB) Download 
Premier Credit Card Terms and Conditions (PDF, 582KB) Premier Credit Card Terms and Conditions (PDF, 582KB) Download 
Premier World Elite Credit Card Terms and Conditions (PDF, 235KB) Premier World Elite Credit Card Terms and Conditions (PDF, 235KB) Download 
Extended Warranty (PDF, 65KB) Extended Warranty (PDF, 65KB) Download 
Premier World Elite Summary Box (PDF, 111KB) Premier World Elite Summary Box (PDF, 111KB) Download 
1 Eligible spend excludes cash advances, fees, balance transfers, cheques, refunds, interest or any other charge.
2 Sterling currency includes transactions made in the UK, Jersey, Guernsey and Isle of Man, as well as transactions overseas where you choose to pay in Sterling rather than local currency.
3 These transactions are subject to a non-sterling transaction fee, currently 2.99% of the amount of the transaction.
4 Shop with greater peace of mind, thanks to a 2-year extended warranty insurance provided by Domestic & General Insurance PLC (D&G).
This insurance can be applied to a range of household items. You'll get 2 years of breakdown cover, starting from when the manufacturer’s warranty expires. You'll also get accidental damage cover, starting from the point you register the item with D&G, until the end of the policy.
This is at no extra cost and registrations are unlimited. To check if the item you're purchasing is covered and if a\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/premier-credit-cards/
########Top of main content 
Explore our credit cards
From transferring a balance, earning rewards or building your credit score, there's a card for every need.
New to HSBC? 
Even if you don't have a current account with us, you can still apply for our Balance Transfer or Purchase Plus Credit Card. 
Compare these cards Compare these cards links to credit card comparator tool 
Explore credit cards 
Credit is subject to status, affordability and terms and conditions. At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers and purchases will revert to the standard variable rate. 
Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Enjoy up to 24 months interest-free for balance transfers (3.49% fee, min £5).
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Compare to other cards Compare to other cards Compare Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Apply Apply for the Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Discover the all-rounder that has up to 18 months of interest-free purchases and up to 16 months of interest-free balance transfers (3.49% fee, minimum £5).
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Compare to other cards Compare to other cards Compare Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Apply Apply for the Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Rewards Credit Card 
Earn reward points on eligible purchases you make.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Compare to other cards Compare to other cards Compare Rewards Credit Card 
Apply Apply for the Rewards Credit Card 
Classic Credit Card 
Improve or start building your credit rating.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 29.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 29.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,000
Compare to other cards Compare to other cards Compare Classic Credit Card 
Apply Apply for the Classic Credit Card 
Premier Credit Card 
Get travel benefits and reward points - plus 9 months interest free on purchases and 18 months interest free on balance transfers (2.99% fee, min £5). Just for HSBC Premier customers.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Compare to other cards Compare to other cards Compare Premier Credit Card 
Apply Apply for the Premier Credit Card 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Designed for the dedicated traveller - exclusive to existing HSBC Premier (including retained Jade benefits) and Private Banking Account customers.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 59.3% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Annual fee: £195
Compare to other cards Compare to other cards Compare Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Apply Apply for the Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Student Credit Card 
Enjoy a purpose-built card for existing HSBC Student Bank account holders.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 18.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £500
Compare to other cards Compare to other cards Compare Student Credit Card 
Apply Apply for the Student Credit Card\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/
########Top of main content 
Car Loan 
Put your plans into gear with a loan for a new or used car 
Get closer to owning your new or used car outright 
With a car loan, you could borrow between £1,000 to £25,000 and get fixed monthly payments over a period of up to 60 months for loans up to £15,000, or up to 96 months for loans over £15,000.
Quick credit decision and instant access to funds (after signed loan agreement is received) for HSBC current account customers 
Make overpayments free of charge 
No arrangement fee 
Representative APR 
For loans between £7,000 and £15,0006.9% APR Representative
Car Loan calculator 
Calculate your monthly loan repayments 
Use the sliders to adjust how much you'd like to borrow and over how many months.
We may be able to offer you a better rate if you change the amount you want to borrow or the length of time you borrow for. A small change can make a big difference to how much interest you'll pay and the overall cost of the loan. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances.
See full details of our Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB).Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB). This link will open in a new window
How much would you like to borrow?
Enter a value between 1,000 and 25,000
This is a How much would you like to borrow? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
7,000
APR6.9%
GBP 1,000
GBP 25,000
Over how many months?
Enter a value between 12 and 60
This is a Over how many months? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other
APR6.9%
12 months
60 months
Representative example*
Total amount payable
GBP 8,255.40
Monthly repayment
GBP 137.59
Representative
6.9% APR
Interest rate p.a. fixed
6.9%
Who can apply?
Why get a Car Loan with us? 
Borrow from £1,000 to £25,000, or up to £50,000 for HSBC Premier account holders 
Always know what you'll have to pay with fixed monthly repayments spread over 1 to 5 years for loans of £15,000 or less, or over 1 to 8 years for loans over £15,000. 
Get a quick decision 
If you're an HSBC current account holder you can get an instant credit decision, while non-HSBC current account customers should get a credit decision in 2 to 5 working days. 
Quick access to funds 
Existing HSBC current account customers could receive the money instantly once your application has been approved and the loan agreement has been signed. Non-HSBC current account customers could receive the money into a nominated account 3 working days after the signed loan agreement is received. 
Make overpayments free of charge 
Manage your finances the way you want with the flexibility to overpay, which could reduce the amount of interest you have to pay. 
Rate information 
6.9% APR representative 
This rate is available for loans between £7,000 and £15,000.
*The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 22.9%.
The APR may vary based on amount borrowed. Please use the calculator or the loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB)loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB) This link will open in a new window for more details.
Things to know about our car loans 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if you:
are over 18 and a resident of the UK
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £10,000 or more
have a bank or building society account with a Direct Debit facility
Not available for customers with a Basic Bank Account.
For joint loan applications, please call us on 03457 404 404. Joint loans are not available online or in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Our loans are subject to status.
What you can't use your loan for 
We don't offer Personal Loans for a number of purposes including:
the purchase of property or land (both UK & Overseas) including holiday homes and apartments
purchasing a joint stake in a property or buying out a joint owner
mortgage deposit (regardless of lender or country)
gifting funds to third parties to support the purchase of a property, including mortgage deposit, stamp duty and solicitors fees
gambling
business purposes
sharedealing
Loan information 
Fixed repayment terms
spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for Personal Loans of £15,000 and less
spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years for Personal Loans of over £15,000
the first repayment is due 1 month from drawdown
repayments will be taken monthly from your nominated current account

Debt consolidation considerations
if you're using any part of this loan to pay off or reduce existing loans/debts (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of this loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans/debts
spreading your payments over a longer term means you could end up paying more overall than under your existing arrangements, even if the interest rate on this new loan is less than the rates you're currently paying
you should also consider if any early repayment charges apply and if this form of borrowing is appropriate for your circumstances
Interest
at the beginning of the loan we work out the interest you'll pay over the whole period of your loan and add this to your loan balance
Early repayments
you can repay your loan in full at any time by giving us notice in writing, by visiting a branch or by calling us on 03457 404 404
once you've given us notice, we'll give you a settlement figure. It's necessary to pay all the amounts owed if you wish to close the loan
if you make an early repayment there may be a reduction in the amount of interest you'll have to pay and this will be reflected in the settlement figure
the settlement figure will include interest up to the date which is 28 days after you tell us y\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/products/car-loan/
########Top of main content 
Home Improvement Loan 
Make your dream home a reality with a home improvement loan 
Get the most out of your property with a home improvement loan 
Whether you’re planning a new kitchen or buying some new furniture, you can get fixed monthly payments and borrow a between £1,000 to £25,000 with a home improvement loan.
Quick credit decision and instant access to funds (after signed loan agreement is received) for HSBC current account customers 
Make overpayments free of charge 
No arrangement fee 
Representative APR 
For loans between £7,000 and £15,0006.9% APR Representative
Home Improvement Loan calculator 
Calculate your monthly loan repayments 
Use the sliders to adjust how much you'd like to borrow and over how many months.
We may be able to offer you a better rate if you change the amount you want to borrow or the length of time you borrow for. A small change can make a big difference to how much interest you'll pay and the overall cost of the loan. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances.
See full details of our Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB).Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB). This link will open in a new window
How much would you like to borrow?
Enter a value between 1,000 and 25,000
This is a How much would you like to borrow? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
7,000
APR6.9%
GBP 1,000
GBP 25,000
Over how many months?
Enter a value between 12 and 60
This is a Over how many months? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other
APR6.9%
12 months
60 months
Representative example*
Total amount payable
GBP 8,255.40
Monthly repayment
GBP 137.59
Representative
6.9% APR
Interest rate p.a. fixed
6.9%
Who can apply?
Why get a Home Improvement Loan with us? 
Borrow from £1,000 to £25,000, or up to £50,000 for HSBC Premier account holders 
Always know what you'll have to pay with fixed monthly repayments spread over 1 to 5 years for loans of £15,000 or less, or over 1 to 8 years for loans over £15,000. 
Get a quick decision 
If you've got an HSBC current account you can get an instant credit decision, while non-HSBC current account customers should get a credit decision in 2 to 5 working days. 
Quick access to funds 
Existing HSBC current account customers could receive the money instantly once your application has been approved and the loan agreement has been signed. Non-HSBC current account customers could receive the money into a nominated account 3 working days after the signed loan agreement is received. 
Make overpayments at no extra cost 
Manage your finances the way you want with the flexibility to overpay, which could reduce the amount of interest you have to pay. 
Rate information 
6.9% APR representative 
This rate is available for loans between £7,000 and £15,000.
*The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 22.9%.
The APR may vary based on amount borrowed. Please use the calculator or the loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB)loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB) This link will open in a new window for more details.
Things to know about our home improvement loans 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if you:
are over 18 and a resident of the UK
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £10,000 or more
have a bank or building society account with a Direct Debit facility

Not available for customers with a Basic Bank Account.
For joint loan applications, please call us on 03457 404 404. Joint loans are not available online or in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Our loans are subject to status.
What you can't use your loan for 
We don't offer Personal Loans for a number of purposes including:
the purchase of property or land (both UK & Overseas) including holiday homes and apartments
purchasing a joint stake in a property or buying out a joint owner
mortgage deposit (regardless of lender or country)
gifting funds to third parties to support the purchase of a property, including mortgage deposit, stamp duty and solicitors fees
gambling
business purposes
sharedealing
Loan information 
Fixed repayment terms
spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for Personal Loans of £15,000 and less
spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years for Personal Loans of over £15,000
the first repayment is due 1 month from drawdown
repayments will be taken monthly from your nominated current account
Debt consolidation considerations
if you're using any part of this loan to pay off or reduce existing loans/debts (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of this loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans/debts
spreading your payments over a longer term means you could end up paying more overall than under your existing arrangements, even if the interest rate on this new loan is less than the rates you're currently paying
you should also consider if any early repayment charges apply and if this form of borrowing is appropriate for your circumstances
Interest
at the beginning of the loan we work out the interest you'll pay over the whole period of your loan and add this to your loan balance
Early repayments
you can repay your loan in full at any time by giving us notice in writing, by visiting a branch or by calling us on 03457 404 404
once you've given us notice, we'll give you a settlement figure. It's necessary to pay all the amounts owed if you wish to close the loan
if you make an early repayment there may be a reduction in the amount of interest you'll have to pay and this will be reflected in the settlement figure
the settlement figure will include interest up to t\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/products/home-improvements/
########Top of main content 
Premier Personal Loan 
Get more out of life with a loan of up to £50,000 
Enjoy a personal loan created especially for Premier customers 
Borrow between £1,000 to £50,000 and get fixed monthly payments over a period of up to 60 months for loans up to £15,000, or up to 96 months for loans over £15,000.
Quick credit decision and instant access to funds (after signed loan agreement is received) for HSBC current account customers 
Make overpayments free of charge 
No arrangement fee 
Representative APR 
For loans between £10,000 and £30,000 6.4% APR Representative
Premier Personal Loan calculator 
Calculate your monthly loan repayments 
Use the sliders to adjust how much you'd like to borrow and over how many months.
We may be able to offer you a better rate if you change the amount you want to borrow or the length of time you borrow for. A small change can make a big difference to how much interest you'll pay and the overall cost of the loan. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances.
See full details of our Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB).Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB). This link will open in a new window
How much would you like to borrow?
Enter a value between 1,000 and 50,000
This is a How much would you like to borrow? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
10,000
APR6.4%
GBP 1,000
GBP 50,000
Over how many months?
Enter a value between 12 and 60
This is a Over how many months? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
APR6.4%
12 months
60 months
Representative example*
Total amount payable
GBP 11,661.05
Monthly repayment
GBP 194.35
Representative
6.4% APR
Interest rate p.a. fixed
6.4%
Who can apply?
Why get a Premier Personal Loan with us? 
Borrow from £1,000 to £50,000 
Spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for loans of £15,000 or less, or over 1 to 8 years for loans over £15,000. 
Funds transferred same day 
Once approved, your money will be transferred into your account instantly. If your application is referred, we may require further information and your paperwork may need to be completed in branch or by post. 
Get a quick decision 
Apply in just a few minutes and get an instant credit decision. 
Make overpayments or apply for additional borrowing 
Make overpayments without charge, which may reduce the amount of interest you pay. Or, if you’ve already got an HSBC Personal Loan, find out about topping up your existing loan. 
Not a Premier customer? We have a Personal Loan made just for you 
Rate information 
6.4% APR representative 
This rate is available for loans between £10,000 and £30,000.
*The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 18.9%.
The APR rates may vary based on amount borrowed. Please use the calculator or the Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB)Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB) This link will open in a new window.
Things to know about our Premier personal loans 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if you:
hold an HSBC Premier Account
are over 18 and a resident of the UK
For joint loan applications, please call us on 03457 404 404. Joint loans are not available online or in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Our loans are subject to status.
What you can't use your loan for 
We don't offer Personal Loans for a number of purposes including:
the purchase of property or land (both UK & Overseas) including holiday homes and apartments
purchasing a joint stake in a property or buying out a joint owner
mortgage deposit (regardless of lender or country)
gifting funds to third parties to support the purchase of a property, including mortgage deposit, stamp duty and solicitors fees
gambling
business purposes
share dealing
Loan information 
Fixed repayment terms
spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for Premier Personal Loans of £15,000 and less
spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years for Premier Personal Loans of over £15,000
the first repayment is due 1 month from drawdown
repayments will be taken monthly from your nominated current account
Debt consolidation considerations
if you're using any part of this loan to pay off or reduce existing loans/debts (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of this loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans/debts
spreading your payments over a longer term means you could end up paying more overall than under your existing arrangements, even if the interest rate on this new loan is less than the rates you're currently paying
you should also consider if any early repayment charges apply and if this form of borrowing is appropriate for your circumstances
Interest
at the beginning of the loan we work out the interest you'll pay over the whole period of your loan and add this to your loan balance
Early repayments
you can repay your loan in full at any time by giving us notice in writing, by visiting a branch or by calling us on 03457 404 404
once you've given us notice, we'll give you a settlement figure. It's necessary to pay all the amounts owed if you wish to close the loan
if you make an early repayment there may be a reduction in the amount of interest you'll have to pay and this will be reflected in the settlement figure
the settlement figure will include interest up to the date which is 28 days after you tell us you want to repay the loan, plus an additional month
Responsible lending
If you think there might be a change in your circumstances that could increase your outgoings or reduce your disposable income, please contact us by phone or in branch for further guidance. Changes to consider are:
e\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/products/premier/
########Top of main content 
Top Up Loan 
Borrow more when you need it to help cover whatever life brings your way 
Do you need to take out some extra borrowing, and already hold a loan with us? You could apply online to either top up your existing loan, or apply for an additional loan.
Topping up your loan 
Existing customers can apply for further lending, and if approved, we'll automatically consolidate your existing loan with the new loan to provide one monthly repayment. The APR of this new loan could be higher than the APR of your existing Personal Loan.
The top up option may increase the total amount payable if your existing debt is repaid over a new extended term. The rate we offer could be higher than the representative APR advertised, and more than your existing loan APR. An approved rate will be subject to a credit check, and the loan amount you request.
Additional loan 
Keep your monthly repayments separate by applying for an additional loan to obtain the lending you require. The amount you choose to borrow is dependent on your credit status.
Calculate your additional loan repayments 
Use the sliders to adjust how much you'd like to borrow and over how many months.
We may be able to offer you a better rate if you change the amount you want to borrow or the length of time you borrow for. A small change can make a big difference to how much interest you'll pay and the overall cost of the loan. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances.
See full details of our Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB).Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB). This link will open in a new window
This is for your additional loan only. If you're choosing to top up your existing loan, it won't take into account your existing borrowing. You can see this information when you apply through online banking.
How much would you like to borrow?
Enter a value between 1,000 and 25,000
This is a How much would you like to borrow? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
7,000
APR6.9%
GBP 1,000
GBP 25,000
Over how many months?
Enter a value between 12 and 60
This is a Over how many months? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other
APR6.9%
12 months
60 months
Representative example*
Total amount payable
GBP 8,255.40
Monthly repayment
GBP 137.59
Representative
6.9% APR
Interest rate p.a. fixed
6.9%
Who can apply?
Why get a Top Up Loan with us? 
Borrow from £1,000 to £25,000 
You can either apply for an additional loan meaning you'll have separate loans and separate payments, or you can choose to top up your existing loan, where we consolidate your existing loan into one monthly repayment. 
Get a quick decision 
As an HSBC current account holder, you could get an instant credit decision. 
Quick access to funds 
Existing HSBC current account holders can receive their money instantly once the application has been approved and the loan agreement has been signed. 
Make overpayments free of charge 
Manage your finances the way you want with the flexibility to overpay, which could reduce the amount of interest you have to pay. 
Rate information 
6.9% APR representative 
This rate is available for loans between £7,000 and £15,000.
*The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 22.9%.
The APR may vary based on amount borrowed. Please use the calculator or the loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB)loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB) This link will open in a new window for more details.
Things to know 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if you:
are over 18 and a resident of the UK
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £10,000 or more
have a bank or building society account with a Direct Debit facility
Not available for customers with a Basic Bank Account.
For joint loan applications, please call us on 03457 404 404. Joint loans are not available online or in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Our loans are subject to status.
What you can't use your loan for 
We don't offer Personal Loans for a number of purposes including:
the purchase of property or land (both UK & Overseas) including holiday homes and apartments
purchasing a joint stake in a property or buying out a joint owner
mortgage deposit (regardless of lender or country)
gifting funds to third parties to support the purchase of a property, including mortgage deposit, stamp duty and solicitors fees
gambling
business purposes
sharedealing
Loan information 
Fixed repayment terms
Spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for Personal Loans of £15,000 and less.
Spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years for Personal Loans of over £15,000.
The first repayment is due 1 month from drawdown.
Repayments will be taken monthly from your nominated current account.
Debt consolidation considerations
If you're using any part of this loan to pay off or reduce existing loans/debts (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of this loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans/debts.
Spreading your payments over a longer term means you could end up paying more overall than under your existing arrangements, even if the interest rate on this new loan is less than the rates you're currently paying.
You should also consider if any early repayment charges apply and if this form of borrowing is appropriate for your circumstances.
Interest
At the beginning of the loan we work out the interest you'll pay over the whole period of your loan and add this to your loan balance.
Early repayments
You can repay your loan in full at any time by giving us notice in writing, by visiting a branch or by calling us on\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/products/top-up-loans/
########Top of main content 
Debt Consolidation Loan 
Make life simpler by combining your existing debts into a single loan 
Make it easier to manage your debt with a single monthly payment 
If you’ve got debt in different places (including credit cards and loans) a debt consolidation loan could help you bring it all together.
Quick credit decision and instant access to funds (after signed loan agreement is received) for HSBC current account customers 
Make overpayments free of charge 
No arrangement fee 
Representative APR 
For loans between £7,000 and £15,0006.9% APR Representative
Debt Consolidation Loan calculator 
Calculate your monthly loan repayments 
Use the sliders to adjust how much you'd like to borrow and over how many months.
We may be able to offer you a better rate if you change the amount you want to borrow or the length of time you borrow for. A small change can make a big difference to how much interest you'll pay and the overall cost of the loan. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances.
See full details of our Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB).Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB). This link will open in a new window
How much would you like to borrow?
Enter a value between 1,000 and 25,000
This is a How much would you like to borrow? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
7,000
APR6.9%
GBP 1,000
GBP 25,000
Over how many months?
Enter a value between 12 and 60
This is a Over how many months? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other
APR6.9%
12 months
60 months
Representative example*
Total amount payable
GBP 8,255.40
Monthly repayment
GBP 137.59
Representative
6.9% APR
Interest rate p.a. fixed
6.9%
Who can apply?
Why get a Debt Consolidation Loan with us? 
Borrow from £1,000 to £25,000, or up to £50,000 for HSBC Premier account holders 
Always know what you'll have to pay with fixed monthly repayments spread over 1 to 5 years for loans of £15,000 or less, or over 1 to 8 years for loans over £15,000. 
Get a quick decision 
If you've got an HSBC current account you can get an instant credit decision, while non-HSBC current account customers should get a credit decision in 2 to 5 working days. 
Quick access to funds 
Existing HSBC current account customers could receive the money instantly once your application has been approved and the loan agreement has been signed. Non-HSBC current account customers could receive the money into a nominated account 3 working days after the signed loan agreement is received. 
Make overpayments free of charge 
Manage your finances the way you want with the flexibility to overpay, which could reduce the amount of interest you have to pay. 
Rate information 
6.9% APR representative 
This rate is available for loans between £7,000 and £15,000.
*The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 22.9%.
The APR may vary based on amount borrowed. Please use the calculator or the loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB)loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB) This link will open in a new window for more details.
Things to know about our debt consolidation loans 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if you:
are over 18 and a resident of the UK
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £10,000 or more
have a bank or building society account with a Direct Debit facility
Not available for customers with a Basic Bank Account.
For joint loan applications, please call us on 03457 404 404. Joint loans are not available online or in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Our loans are subject to status.
Important documents 
Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 64KB) Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 64KB) Download 
Personal Loan Terms & Conditions (PDF, 90KB) Personal Loan Terms & Conditions (PDF, 90KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 547KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 547KB) Download 
Get a Personalised Loan Quote and see the interest rate and terms you may be offered, without affecting your credit rating.
Get a quote 
Keep in mind 
If you're considering applying for a loan to pay off or reduce existing loans/debts (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of the new loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans/debts.
Spreading your payments over a longer term means you could end up paying more overall than under your existing arrangements, even if the interest rate on this new loan is less than the rates you are currently paying.
What you can't use your loan for 
We don't offer Personal Loans for a number of purposes including:
the purchase of property or land (both UK & Overseas) including holiday homes and apartments
purchasing a joint stake in a property or buying out a joint owner
mortgage deposit (regardless of lender or country)
gifting funds to third parties to support the purchase of a property, including mortgage deposit, stamp duty and solicitors fees
gambling
business purposes
sharedealing
Loan information 
Fixed repayment terms
spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for Personal Loans of £15,000 and less
spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years for Personal Loans of over £15,000
the first repayment is due 1 month from drawdown
repayments will be taken monthly from your nominated current account
Debt consolidation considerations
if you're using any part of this loan to pay off or reduce existing loans/debts (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of this loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans/debts
spreading your payments over a longer ter\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/products/debt-consolidation/
########Top of main content 
Personal Loan 
Borrow from £1,000 to £25,000, with an instant decision and quick access to funds 
Make your plans a reality 
Borrow between £1,000 and £25,000 with fixed monthly payments of up to 60 months for loans up to £15,000, or up to 96 months for loans over £15,000.
Quick credit decision and instant access to funds (after signed loan agreement is received) for HSBC current account customers 
Make overpayments free of charge 
No arrangement fee 
Representative APR 
For loans between £7,000 and £15,0006.9% APR Representative
Personal Loan calculator 
Calculate your monthly loan repayments 
Use the sliders to adjust how much you'd like to borrow and over how many months.
We may be able to offer you a better rate if you change the amount you want to borrow or the length of time you borrow for. A small change can make a big difference to how much interest you'll pay and the overall cost of the loan. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances.
See full details of our Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB).Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB). This link will open in a new window
How much would you like to borrow?
Enter a value between 1,000 and 25,000
This is a How much would you like to borrow? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
7,000
APR6.9%
GBP 1,000
GBP 25,000
Over how many months?
Enter a value between 12 and 60
This is a Over how many months? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other
APR6.9%
12 months
60 months
Representative example*
Total amount payable
GBP 8,255.40
Monthly repayment
GBP 137.59
Representative
6.9% APR
Interest rate p.a. fixed
6.9%
Who can apply?
Why get a Personal Loan with us? 
Borrow from £1,000 to £25,000 
Always know what you'll have to pay with fixed monthly repayments spread over 1 to 5 years for loans of £15,000 or less, or over 1 to 8 years for loans over £15,000. 
Get a quick decision 
If you've got an HSBC current account you can get an instant credit decision, while non-HSBC current account customers should get a credit decision in 2 to 5 working days. 
Quick access to funds 
Existing HSBC current account customers could receive the money instantly once your application has been approved and the loan agreement has been signed. Non-HSBC current account customers could receive the money into a nominated account 3 working days after the signed loan agreement is received. 
Make overpayments free of charge 
Manage your finances the way you want with the flexibility to overpay, which could reduce the amount of interest you have to pay. 
Rate information 
6.9% APR representative. 
This rate is available for loans between £7,000 and £15,000.

*The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 22.9%.

The APR may vary based on amount borrowed. Please use the calculator or the loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB)loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB) This link will open in a new window for more details.
Things to know about our personal loans 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if you:
are over 18 and a resident of the UK
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £10,000 or more
have a bank or building society account with a Direct Debit facility
Not available for customers with a Basic Bank Account.
For joint loan applications, please call us on 03457 404 404. Joint loans are not available online or in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Our loans are subject to status.
What you can't use your loan for 
We don't offer Personal Loans for a number of purposes including:
the purchase of property or land (both UK & Overseas) including holiday homes and apartments
purchasing a joint stake in a property or buying out a joint owner
mortgage deposit (regardless of lender or country)
gifting funds to third parties to support the purchase of a property, including mortgage deposit, stamp duty and solicitors fees
gambling
business purposes
sharedealing
Loan information 
Fixed repayment terms
spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for Personal Loans of £15,000 and less
spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years for Personal Loans of over £15,000
the first repayment is due 1 month from drawdown
repayments will be taken monthly from your nominated current account
Lending consolidation considerations
if you're using any part of this loan to consolidate other lending (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of this loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans/other lending
spreading your payments over a longer term means you could end up paying more overall than under your existing arrangements, even if the interest rate on this new loan is less than the rates you're currently paying
you should also consider if any early repayment charges apply and if this form of borrowing is appropriate for your circumstances
Interest
at the beginning of the loan we work out the interest you'll pay over the whole period of your loan and add this to your loan balance
Early repayments
you can repay your loan in full at any time by giving us notice in writing, by visiting a branch or by calling us on 03457 404 404
once you've given us notice, we'll give you a settlement figure. It's necessary to pay all the amounts owed if you wish to close the loan
if you make an early repayment there may be a reduction in the amount of interest you'll have to pay and this will be reflected in the settlement figure
the settlement figure will include interest up to the date which is 28 days after you tell us you want to repay the loan, plus an additional month
Responsible lending
If you \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/products/personal/
########Top of main content 
Switch your mortgage deal 
Switch your mortgage rate in just a few steps 
In line with the government's Mortgage Charter, HSBC can now offer more options to help mortgage customers through the cost of living crisis.
Close 
Switch with us and you'll get rates just for you 
If you've got an HSBC mortgage or a buy-to-let mortgage and your current rate is coming to an end, you could choose a new deal up to 180 days before. 
If you have opted to make temporary interest-only payments on your mortgage under the Mortgage Charter, you'll need to speak to us to switch.
Switch now 
Dedicated rates 
When it's time to switch, we've got mortgage rates just for our existing mortgage customers. 
Get a new deal quickly 
As you're already with us, it's quicker to switch rates – it can often take between 4 to 8 weeks to move to another lender. 
Choose your rate in advance 
Select your mortgage rate up to 180 days before your current rate comes to an end, without paying an early repayment charge. 
No credit check or full application 
We don't need to check your eligibility or credit rating. 
Hassle-free property valuation 
We’ll complete a digital valuation of your property. 
You don't need a solicitor 
Switch your rate with us and you won't need a solicitor, but you will if you move lender. 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
	
How to switch your rate
1. Get ready to switch
We’ll send you reminders when your rate is due to end. You could choose a new deal up to 180 days before, or switch at any time subject to any early repayment charges.
2. Choose a rate
Take a look at the latest rates for our mortgage customers, and you'll find a selection available to you, based on your mortgage balance and property value. Then, choose one to switch to. 
3. Renew your rate
Chosen your rate and ready to get a new deal? You can switch online - even if you're not registered for online banking. If you need help to complete your switch, speak to us.
Got a question? 
You’ll find lots of answers in our frequently asked questions section FAQS.
If you can’t find what you need here, the best way to get the answer you need is to use our chat service. This is available from 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday.
Switch your rate online 
If you’re happy to choose your own rate and are up to date with your mortgage payments, you can make the switch yourself online.
All you need is your mortgage account number, full name, date of birth and UK mobile number.
If you have opted to make temporary interest-only payments on your mortgage under the Mortgage Charter, you'll need to speak to us to switch.
Is your borrowing in joint names? 
To make things simpler, when you switch rates online, we only need one of you to do this.
How does it work?
Decide between yourselves which one of you will switch the rate. We’ll take this to mean that you have given your other borrower permission to switch for you.
The borrower who has permission begins the rate switch. As part of this, they’ll confirm to us that they have your permission to switch rates.
We’ll keep you both informed throughout and make sure both of you receive information on your new rate before you go ahead.
The borrower who has permission can then accept the rate switch offer for both of you.
Let us know immediately if you don’t want your joint borrower to switch for you, by calling us on 0800 169 6333.
What other options do I have to switch rates?
If you’d prefer to do the rate switch with your joint borrower, you can do this over the phone with one of our mortgage specialists, we will be happy to help on 0800 169 6333.
Switch online 
Already started a rate switch? 
Select 'Continue your switch' if you've already started a switch online, or with us over the phone and we’ve told you that you can complete it online.
Continue your switch Continue your switch This link will open in a new window 
Speak to us to switch your rate 
If you have a Buy to Let mortgage please follow option 1.
1. Switch your rate 
If you know the rate you would like, but need some help to complete your switch, you can make a non-advised rate switch appointment with one of our mortgage team.
Book an appointment Book an appointment This link will open in a new window 
2. Initial discussion 
If you're not sure whether you're ready to proceed and would like to ask us some questions, we can offer you a 30 minute initial discussion with one of our mortgage advisers. Our advisers will answer any questions you may have, before booking a follow up appointment for you to complete your rate switch.
Book my 30 minute initial discussion Book my 30 minute initial discussion This link will open in a new window 
3. Advice for switching your rate 
If you're ready to proceed and would like advice to choose the best rate for your needs and circumstances. you can make an appointment with one of our mortgage advisers who will complete your advised rate switch.
Book my 2 hour appointment Book my 2 hour appointment This link will open in a new window 
Watch a video to help you switch
Introduction to switching rates 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What happens if you choose not to switch 
If you don't switch rates when your current HSBC fixed-rate or 2-year tracker mortgage comes to an end, you'll be automatically moved onto our Standard Variable Rate.
This rate is variable and can change. This means your monthly payments could go up or down at any time.
Discover more about the types of mortgages we offer.
Fre\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/existing-customers/switch/
########Top of main content 
First-time buyer mortgages 
Get your foot on the property ladder with our range of mortgages 
Start your journey to your first home 
We're here to help you open the door to a place of your own. With low-deposit mortgages, our latest rates, online applications and handy guides, we make it easier to find a mortgage.
Make overpayments 
You can make overpayments so you can reduce the size of your mortgage (subject to your mortgage terms). 
Borrow up to a 35-year term 
Choose your length of term – up to 35 years, so your monthly payments can suit you. 
Fee saver mortgages 
We’ve got a range of mortgages with no booking fee, and all our mortgages come with a standard valuation at no extra cost. 
Apply by phone or online
	
You can speak to one of our mortgage advisors or apply online. 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Not a first-time buyer? View our mortgages 
Find out how to apply 
Starting your journey to becoming a homeowner with us is easy. First, you'll need a Decision in Principle – we’ll explain how to do this over the phone or online. Then, we'll let you know what you’ll need to do for your mortgage application.
Our mortgage advisers will be happy to offer you advice over the phone.
How to apply How to apply for a mortgage 
If you've started your application already, you can pick up where you left off, or update it online at any time.
Continue your application 
You might also be interested in
A guide for first-time buyers
Find out more about the steps involved in buying your first home.
Rates
Compare our latest mortgage rates and understand our fees.
How much could you borrow
Use our quick calculator to see how much you could borrow.
Repayments calculator
Work out how much your mortgage payments could be.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/first-time-buyers/
########Top of main content 
Remortgage to HSBC 
Move your mortgage to one of our latest rates 
Remortgage with confidence 
Whether you have a mortgage with another provider and the fixed-rate is coming to an end, or you're just looking for a better deal, we've got a range of fixed and tracker mortgages to choose from.
Already have an HSBC mortgage and looking to switch deals? Find out how to switch your rate
Our latest rates 
Switch to us and you could find a lower interest rate, that could make your monthly repayments less. 
Conveyancing options 
You may have the option of choosing a bank appointed panel solicitor where the standard legal fees are covered by us, or you may be able to appoint your own solicitor or licensed conveyancer (at your cost) to act for us both, as long as they meet our criteria. 
Standard valuation for no additional fee 
All our mortgages come with a standard property valuation at no extra cost, so there's less to think about. 
Apply by phone or online 
You can speak to one of our mortgage advisers or apply online. 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Remortgaging not for you? View our mortgages 
Should I remortgage 
Remortgaging is the process of moving your mortgage from one lender to another.
There are different reasons to remortgage:
You're reaching the end of your current mortgage term
If your fixed-rate or tracker mortgage is ending, you could move to your lender's standard variable rate. As this is often higher, remortgaging your property may give you a better deal.
You’re paying high interest rates on your mortgage
Remortgaging your property could lower your interest rates and help you pay less on your mortgage each month.
You want to pay off your mortgage early
Remortgaging your property could allow you to make overpayments and reduce your loan size.
You want to increase your property value
You can remortgage your property to borrow more money for some home improvements.
Find out how to remortgage 
Remortgaging your home with us is simple. First, you'll need a Decision in Principle – we’ll explain how to do this over the phone or online. Then, we'll let you know what you’ll need to do for your mortgage application.
How to apply 
If you've started your application already, you can pick up where you left off, or update it online at any time.
Continue your application 
You might also be interested in
A guide to remortgaging to us
Understand more about how to move your mortgage to HSBC.
Rates
Compare our latest mortgage rates and understand our fees.
How much could you borrow?
Use our quick calculator to see how much you could borrow.
Repayments calculator
Work out how much your mortgage payments could be.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/move-your-mortgage/
########Top of main content 
How to apply for a mortgage 
Applying for a mortgage or remortgaging with us is simple. First, you'll need a 'decision in principle' (sometimes called an 'agreement in principle'), and then you can apply for your mortgage. 
Find out how to apply for a mortgage with HSBC
1. Prepare your details
You'll need details of your income, employment and outgoings.
2. Get a decision in principle
This will give you a good idea of the amount you may be able to borrow. It's quick and easy and it won't affect your credit score.
3. Apply for a mortgage
Once you’ve got your decision in principle, you can start your full mortgage application.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Ready to get a decision in principle? 
Before you apply, you should make sure that:
you're a UK resident
you're aged 18 or over
you're not looking for a buy-to-let mortgage
your income is only received in GBP
the mortgage is for your main residence and you're not looking to borrow more for your current property
you're not a member of the armed forces
your mortgage term is not greater than 35 years
you're not purchasing through a government scheme, such as Help to Buy
We'll ask you a few questions about yourself and any other person you want to take out a mortgage with. It takes about 5 minutes, and won't affect your credit score.
Get a decision in principle Get a decision in principle This link will open in a new window 
If you don't meet all of the criteria, get your decision in principle hereyour decision in principle here This link will open in a new window.
For buy-to-let mortgage applications find out morefind out more about buy to let mortgage.
Or, if you're not a UK resident find out how to applyfind out how to apply for a mortgage if you're not UK resident..
Apply for a mortgage 
Once you've got your decision in principle, you can continue to complete your mortgage application.
Mortgages for self-employed 
We're asking all applicants with any form of self employed income to apply by making an appointment over the phone, by Zoom or in a branch. This is to help us fully understand your income.
You can find out how much you may be able to borrow by completing a decision in principle online. Once you’re ready to complete your application, you’ll need to contact us to book an appointment.
Apply online 
Before you apply online check that:
you're comfortable choosing the right mortgage without our advice
you understand this means we won't assess the suitability of the mortgage you choose and you won't benefit from the protection provided by the Financial Conduct Authority rules offered through an advised level of service
you have your username and password you set up when getting your decision in principle
Start your mortgage application 
Continue mortgage application 
Apply with a mortgage adviser 
You can also choose to apply with a mortgage adviser, by phone or in a branch. We can give advice on the most suitable residential mortgage for you, and guide you through the residential or buy-to-let mortgage process.
Give us a call to book your appointment
0800 169 6333
Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. We may monitor and record calls. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
	
FAQs
Will you lend on flats that have failed their external wall system fire review (EWS1) but have funding plans in place to fix this? 
We will consider lending on flats in England which have suitable remediations schemes, and those where leaseholders are protected under the Building Safety Act. In such cases an EWS1 report is not required.
How long does a mortgage application take? 
How long your application will take depends on how you choose to apply and other factors. A more complex application, with more parties, may take longer.
How long does a decision in principle last? 
At HSBC, decision in principle remains valid for as long as your circumstances and our lending criteria remain the same. Remember a decision in principle is only an indication of how much you can borrow. It's not an offer until you complete a full mortgage application.
How do mortgages work? 
A mortgage is a type of loan that's used to buy a property. The property acts as security for the loan, so it could be repossessed if you can't meet the repayments.
When you apply for a mortgage, you need to put down a deposit. This will be a percentage of the cost of the property value.
The rest of the money you’ll need to buy your new home is covered by a mortgage.
There are different types of mortgage rates, different types of repayment options and a choice of terms to repay the mortgage over. You might find it helpful to speak to an adviser or broker to help you decide what mortgage is best for you.
You might also be interested in
How much could you borrow?
Use our quick calculator to find out how much you could borrow.
Repayments calculator
Work out how much your monthly payments could be.
Manage your HSBC mortgage
Got a mortgage with us already? Find out how to make changes, borrow more, move home or switch rates.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/how-to-apply/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage rates 
We offer a range of mortgages designed for you 
In line with the government's Mortgage Charter, HSBC can now offer more options to help mortgage customers through the cost of living crisis.
close 
Find the best mortgage rate for you
Existing HSBC mortgage
Already got an HSBC mortgage? Switch to a new rate for your home or buy-to-let property, or borrow more for your current home.
Remortgage
If you're new to HSBC, you could remortgage to us from another lender to find a more suitable deal, whether you’re borrowing the same or want to borrow more.
First-time buyer
Check out our latest rates if you're looking to buy your first home.
Moving home
If you're moving home, you could transfer your mortgage to a new rate or borrow more.
Buy-to-let
View our latest rates if you're looking for a mortgage, or to remortgage a buy-to-let property from another provider.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Ready to apply? 
Get a Decision in Principle 
If you've started your application already, you can pick up where you left off or update it online at any time.
Continue your application 
Need some help? 
Give our dedicated mortgage specialists a call on:
0800 169 6333
Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Moving home 
Moving home 
First-time buyer 
Remortgage 
Buy-to-let 
Existing HSBC mortgage 
We offer a range of award-winning mortgages, with our latest rates if you're moving home.
Not a UK resident or lived in the UK as a foreign national for less than 12 months? Find out how to apply for a non-UK resident mortgage and take a look at our latest residential and buy-to-let mortgage rates.
Fixed-rate mortgages 
A fixed-rate mortgage means that your payments will stay the same until the end date of the fixed-rate period, even if interest rates change.
60% LTV 
70% LTV 
75% LTV 
80% LTV 
85% LTV 
90% LTV 
95% LTV 
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage Initial interest rate Followed by a Variable Rate, currently Initial interest rate period Overall cost for comparison (APRC) Booking fee Annual overpayment allowance Cashback Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.94%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.8%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle	
2 Year Fixed Standard
4.64%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.8%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
3 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.89%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	6.6%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
3 Year Fixed Standard
4.59%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	6.6%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.32%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.0%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
5 Year Fixed Standard
4.18%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.0%
APRC	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
5 Year Fixed Premier Standard
4.15%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.0%
APRC	
£1499
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.94%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.8%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle	
	
Mortgage 
2 Year Fixed Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.64%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.8%
APRC
	
Booking fee 
£999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage 3 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.89%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.6%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage 
3 Year Fixed Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.59%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.6%
APRC
	
Booking fee 
£999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage 5 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.32%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.0%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage 5 Year Fixed Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.18%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.0%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage 5 Year Fixed Premier Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.15%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rat\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/our-rates/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage calculators 
Our calculators are here to help you select and understand how your mortgage can work for you 
Our mortgage calculators 
Whether you're a first time buyer, a home mover or simply looking at your mortgage rate options, we have a range of calculators to help you work out your payments and make things simpler.
How much could I borrow?
Use our interactive tool to see how much you could borrow with HSBC.
Repayments calculator
The repayments calculator helps you to work out how much your monthly payments could be.
Overpayment calculator
See how overpaying on your mortgage could reduce the term and overall interest paid on your mortgage.
Bank of England base rate calculator
Use our calculator to get an idea of what a rate change could mean for your mortgage payments.
You might also be interested in 
First time buyers 
Buy to let mortgage 
Move your mortgage to HSBC 
All HSBC mortgages 
Manage your HSBC mortgage 
Compare our mortgage rates 
Apply for an HSBC mortgage 
New Application 
Applying for a mortgage involves two stages, firstly getting a Decision in Principle; secondly making a mortgage application.
Apply Apply for a mortgage 
Already started an application? 
If you started a mortgage application over the phone or online, you can log on to complete it or track its progress.
Continue Continue your mortgage application 
Please see our current rates and any mortgage fees that may apply.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Mortgage calculator FAQs
What is a mortgage calculator? 
There are various calculators that could help you in different ways.
Our mortgage calculators can tell you:
how much you could borrow
how much your repayments could be
what impact overpayments could make on your mortgage
how an interest rate change could affect your mortgage payments
Which mortgage calculator do I need? 
The borrowing calculator will give you an indication of how much mortgage you may be able to borrow, based on your income, and show how much HSBC may lend you.
The repayment calculator will help you calculate your monthly mortgage payments, so you can compare different rates, terms and repayment types to see what might be best for you.
The overpayment calculator will show how making overpayments to your mortgage could save you interest and may help you to pay off your mortgage early. 
The Bank of England base rate calculator will show you what a change in interest rate could mean for your monthly mortgage payment. You can input your current interest rate and compete with a different one.
Who are the mortgage calculators for? 
Our mortgage calculators can help you if you're a first time buyer, moving home, planning to remortgage, or considering a buy-to-let mortgage. They can also help if you're an existing customer looking to make changes to your mortgage or borrow more.
Does the mortgage calculator affect my credit score? 
No, using our mortgage calculator tools or getting a decision in principle won't have any impact on your credit score. 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/calculators/
########Top of main content 
95% Mortgages 
Helping first time buyers get on the property ladder 
Getting a foot on the property ladder can be tough. That’s why we’re offering 95% mortgages to first-time buyers with a smaller deposit available.
Borrowing at this loan to value (LTV) ratio can bring your dreams of owning your home into reach sooner, but please be aware there are downsides like higher monthly payments so consider your options carefully.
A 95% LTV mortgage allows you to borrow up to 95% of your property value or the purchase price, whichever is lower - this means that you only need to contribute a minimum 5% deposit.
You can calculate your LTV by dividing the amount you want to borrow by the value of the property or the purchase price (whichever is lower), then multiplying this figure by 100. For example: if your purchase price is £200,000 and you have a £10,000 deposit, you would need to borrow £190,000. The LTV calculation would be £190,000 divided by £200,000 x 100, so your LTV ratio would be 95%.
Borrow up to a 35-year term. Spreading your repayments over a longer term could reduce the amount you pay each month, but you'll pay more back overall. Please think carefully about choosing a term and monthly repayment that suits you.
You can make additional payments and overpayments (subject to conditions).
95% mortgages are only available on residential properties with a loan size up to £500,000. The maximum amount we'll lend depends on your personal circumstances, the property you're looking to buy and the type of mortgage you choose.
Here are a few considerations 
Your monthly mortgage payments will be higher with a 95% mortgage, compared to a mortgage with a lower LTV.
You could get a lower interest rate if you provide a larger deposit.
You always need to consider the risk of borrowing a higher amount secured on your property. If the value of the property falls below the amount of the outstanding loan, you may find it difficult to repay the mortgage if you sell the property.
To get an estimate on how much you can borrow, get a Decision in Principle 
Get a decision in principle in minutes 
It won't affect your credit score 
Your home may be repossessed if you don't keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Get a Decision in Principle Get a Decision in Principle This link will open in a new window 
How to apply 
If you started a mortgage application over the phone or online, you can log on to complete it or track its progress. 
Continue with your application 
Contact us 
You can speak with our Mortgage Advisers 7 days a week over the phone. Call us on 0800 169 6333 - Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Back to top Back to top Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/95-percent/
########Top of main content 
Manage your HSBC mortgage 
Switch your rate, borrow more or make changes to your mortgage 
In line with the government's Mortgage Charter, HSBC can now offer more options to help mortgage customers through the cost of living crisis.
Close 
Manage your mortgage the way you want to 
If you've got an HSBC mortgage, you can make changes online, over the phone or in branch. Take a look at the different options – and we'll explain what you'll need to do.
Explore the changes you can make 
Switch your mortgage rate
Find out how to switch to one of our latest rates, which could save you money.
Borrow more or extend your term
Find out how to borrow more or extend your mortgage term, which could make your monthly repayments less.
Mortgage changes which could help you with the rising cost of living
Find out how you could reduce your monthly payments and how your payments may be affected by interest rates.
Move your mortgage rate to your new home
Understand more about how to take your mortgage rate with you to your new home.
Rent out your home temporarily
Find out how to apply for our Consent to Let your home temporarily.
Make overpayments
Learn how making extra payments could help you pay off your mortgage earlier.
How conveyancing works with HSBC 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
You might also be interested in
Rates for mortgage customers
You could find a lower interest rate that could make your monthly repayments less.
How much could you borrow?
Use our quick calculator to find out how much you could borrow.
Repayments calculator
Work out how much your monthly payments could be.
Mortgage payment support
Find out how to get support if you’re having difficulties keeping up with your payments.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/existing-customers/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage payment support 
Ways to help you manage your mortgage 
In line with the government's Mortgage Charter, HSBC can now offer more options to help mortgage customers through the cost of living crisis.
Close this message 
We're here to help 
If you’re finding it difficult to make your payments and think you might miss a payment, we can help. 
Missing a mortgage payment can affect your credit rating, and your financial options in the future, so it's really important to take action.
On this page, you'll find useful information, including our online income and expenditure form. It’s easy to use and once completed, it can help us find the best solution for your needs, quickly. Contacting us to find out your options will not affect your credit score.
Looking to reduce your mortgage payments?
If you're currently up to date with your mortgage payments but looking for ways to reduce these in the future, it's important you explore all the options available to you. 
Already behind on your payments or can’t make your next one?
We're here to help you during what can be a difficult time. Together, we can find the solutions to suit you. 
Looking for independent advice on how to manage your money and debts?
There are several independent organisations that can help you.
What options are available? 
If you're worried about your payments, we may be able to help you.
This can include:
switching your mortgage rate
changing the date your monthly mortgage payment is due
reducing or cancelling any mortgage overpayments
paying only the interest on your mortgage for a 6-month period
extending your mortgage term
Read our Cost of living article to see more about these options.
If you'd like to find out if you're eligible for any of these options, please contact us. Doing so won't affect your credit rating.
Call us on 0800 169 6333.
Lines are open:
Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00
Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00
Already missed your payments or can’t make your next one? 
What you need to know 
If you stop making repayments, it will impact your credit score which could mean:
you get rejected for future credit applications
your ability to get a mortgage in the future is affected
the credit score of anyone who is financially associated with you could be impacted (for example through a joint bank account or credit account)
If you’re going through a difficult and stressful time, please contact us as soon as possible. We’ll try to take the pressure off and make managing your account a bit easier. We’ll talk through some options that could make your payments more manageable, or give you some room to breathe.
Fill in a simple income and expenditure form, as this helps us understand your financial position. You can do this online and it should only take 10 to 15 minutes. One of our team will get in touch with you once it's done.
You can call us on 0800 085 2482 or if you prefer you can use our Chat service. Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 18:00 and on Saturday 08:00 to 16:00. Please have to hand your account details and information on your finances when you contact us.
What we'll talk about 
We know talking about finances can be daunting. To help you prepare, we’ve outlined the types of things you can expect from the call. We'll:
discuss your situation so we can understand any issues you’re experiencing
ask you about your income and outgoings and any debts you may have
explore potential solutions to your situation - for example, we’ll see if we can make changes to your mortgage, such as moving your payment date or extending your term
provide independent contacts if you'd like more financial advice or support
Who else can help? 
Here are some other organisations that can offer financial guidance or more help on how to tackle your debt:
StepChange Debt Charity: visit the StepChange websitevisit the StepChange website This link will open in a new window or call 0800 138 1111
MoneyHelper: visit the MoneyHelper websitevisit the MoneyHelper website This link will open in a new window or call 0300 500 5000
National Debtline: visit the National Debtline websitevisit the National Debtline website This link will open in a new window or call 0808 808 4000
Citizens Advice: visit the Citizens Advice websitevisit the Citizens Advice website This link will open in a new window or call 0344 411 1444
Frequently asked questions
I have a joint mortgage but can’t speak to the other account holder. Can I still call for help? 
Yes, you can still call for help.
If you’ve already missed a payment, speak to us on 0800 085 2482 or if you prefer you can use our chat service.
Lines are open:
Monday to Friday 08:00 to 18:00
Saturday 08:00 to 16:00. 
If you haven’t missed a payment, but are worried about your current payments and are looking to reduce them, speak to us on 0800 169 6333.
Lines are open:
Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00
Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00.
Does missing a mortgage payment or agreeing a repayment plan affect my credit file? 
If you miss a payment on your mortgage, your arrears will be reported to the credit reference agency, which could affect your ability to lend in the future.
Our financial support team will work with you to get you back on track.
Contacting us to discuss the options available won't affect your credit file, so speak to us as soon as possible if think you're going to struggle to make future payments.
Do I need to notify anyone if I'm worried about future payments? 
Contact the companies and organisations you owe money to and let them know about your situation. Think about your priorities so that you pay essential bills first. Although some companies may encourage you to make full repayments, it’s always best to be open and clear about your situation. Let them know how much you can realistically afford to pay. You can then work with them to come up with a repayment plan.
If you have many people you need to pay there are independent organisations that may be able to help\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/money-worries/mortgage-payments/
########Top of main content 
Supporting you with your mortgage 
Worried about your mortgage payments? We're here to help 
We understand that you might be anxious about the cost of living crisis and how to keep up with your mortgage payments as well as paying your other bills.
In general, if you can find a way to continue your current mortgage payments then you should do so. But we can offer you other options in case you can't.
HSBC and the government's Mortgage Charter 
HSBC, along with other banks, has agreed to the commitments of the Mortgage Charter released by the UK governmentMortgage Charter released by the UK government This link will open in a new window in June 2023. The charter sets out how banks can give customers additional flexibility with their mortgages.
The Mortgage Charter says that customers who are struggling can:
contact their bank to discuss options for support without affecting their credit score
arrange to switch rates up to 6 months ahead of a current rate expiring
extend their mortgage term, with the option to reduce it within 6 months
choose to pay only the interest due on their mortgage for a 6-month period
Accessing the Mortgage Charter support will not result in any affordability checks or any marker being added to your credit file. Factual changes will be reflected, such as any changes to monthly payments or terms, but these will not impact your ability to apply for credit long term.
HSBC already offers the option of switching rates up to 6 months ahead of your current rate expiring and extending your mortgage term.
If you feel you would benefit from a reduction in your monthly payments, and your mortgage payments are up to date, please explore your options to find out which one might be best for you.
It’s important to make sure that any changes you make to your mortgage are right for you. If you have any questions, call us on 0800 783 6533 and we’ll be happy to help. The sooner you get in touch with us, the sooner we can help.
Lines are open
8:00am to 8:00pm Monday to Friday
9:00am to 5:00pm Saturday and Sunday
Important information 
If you’ve already missed a mortgage payment, our money worries page has guidance on what to do next.
If you have a Buy-to-let mortgage or your mortgage rate ends within the next 6 months, you’ll need to call us on 0800 783 6533 to talk through your options.
Lines are open
8:00am to 8:00pm Monday to Friday
9:00am to 5:00pm Saturday and Sunday
Explore your options 
Review your mortgage rate 
Your mortgage is usually your biggest household expense. It's worth taking the time to make sure your mortgage still suits your needs. 
Extend the term of your mortgage 
You may be able to extend the term of your mortgage. This could reduce your monthly payments. If you only need to do this temporarily, you'll be able to change back to a shorter term. 
Temporary interest-only payments 
If you have a capital repayment mortgage but feel you would benefit from a reduction in your monthly payments, you may be able to change your monthly payment to just pay the interest for 6 months. After 6 months, you'll go back to repaying both capital and interest. 
Review your mortgage rate	
Take a look at our current rates. If you find a new rate that you're interested in, you can switch online or call us to make the switch. 
We don’t need to check your eligibility or credit score to switch your rate.
Once you’ve secured a new rate, you can change your mind - up until your new rate takes effect. 
If you change your mind after your new rate starts, there may be early repayment charges to pay.
Extend the term of your mortgage 
How extending the term of your mortgage works 
Extending the term of your mortgage means that you’ll pay back your mortgage over a longer period of time.
If you only need to do this temporarily, you’ll have the option to change it back again without having to make a further application, meaning no additional affordability checks.
You can see what your monthly payments could be by using the mortgage term calculator.
So, if for example your current mortgage has a remaining term of 15 years, the calculator will show you what your monthly payments could be if you extend your term to 20 years.
Extending the term of your mortgage means that it will take longer to pay your mortgage back, and will increase the total amount to be repaid. But it can be useful because the monthly payments are lower.
If you feel you would benefit from extending the term of your mortgage, follow the steps shown.
If you've already extended your term and want to change it back, follow the steps to reduce your mortgage term.
Next steps if you want to extend your mortgage term 
Step 1: Find out what your monthly payments could be if you extend the term
You'll need to enter your current interest rate, mortgage amount (you’ll see this as your outstanding balance on your mobile or online banking), and a new longer term. As you're doing this, the summary section in the calculator changes to show you how much your monthly payments could be.
Use the mortgage term calculator 
Step 2: Apply for a mortgage term extension
If you've used the calculator and you've decided that you want to extend the term of your mortgage, you can apply online. Alternatively call us on 0800 783 6533.
Reduce your mortgage term 
If you’ve extended your mortgage term since 17 July 2023, you can reduce your term to what it would be now if you had not extended it, or to a term in between this and your current term.
For example, if your remaining term was 10 years and you extended it to 15 years six months ago, your new term must be between 9 years and 6 months and 14 years and 6 months.
Reducing your term will mean that your monthly payments will be higher. However, it will also reduce the total amount to be repaid.
You can do this without any application, affordability assessment or credit check - as long as you haven’t missed a payment and you request to reduce the term within 6 months of the extension being ap\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/cost-of-living-support/
########Top of main content 
Get the most from your credit card 
Manage all your card needs online or via the app 
Online card payment declined? It may be because the retailer didn't request security checks to help prevent fraud. This can happen even if there are no issues with your account or card. Find out moreFind out more about declined payments.
Log on to manage your card 
Activate your card, report it lost or stolen, or put a temporary freeze on it.
Log on Log on This link will open in a new window 
What do you need help with? 
Activate your new credit card
Received a new card? Find out what to do next.
Card lost, stolen or damaged?
Report a lost or stolen card, freeze or unfreeze your card, or order a replacement.
Instalment plan
Discover a simple way to spread the cost of your larger purchases.
Banking at your fingertips 
The HSBC Mobile Banking app lets you manage your accounts easily and securely at a time and a place that suits you. Discover an ever-growing range of services and features to make banking more convenient for you. Device restrictions apply. 
Find out more about mobile banking 
More card support
Increase your credit limit
Find out how you can request an increase to the limit on your HSBC credit card.
Query a transaction or raise a dispute
Transaction you don’t recognise or dispute with a retailer? Browse our tips or get in touch.
Add a cardholder
Add your partner, a family member or friend to your credit card account.
Using your card at home or abroad
Get the most out of your credit or debit card - wherever you are.
Card repayment options
Browse options for making payments to your HSBC credit card.
Confirming online card payments
Find out about the measures to help keep you safe from fraud.
Protecting your card
Find out how we can work together to keep your cards safe.
Our accessible cards
Our vertical credit and debit cards are full of helpful features that make them accessible, inclusive and sustainable.
Calculate your repayments
Want to know how long it could take to pay off your credit card? Our calculator can help you see how to clear the balance faster.
Credit card fees and rates
Understand more about fees and the interest rates for your HSBC credit card.
How to transfer a balance
Taken out a new balance transfer credit card? Find out how to move your outstanding balances on to it.
Second credit cards
Find out how having a second HSBC card could help you manage your different spending needs.
Make the most of your card
Rewards
Find out how to earn and redeem reward points.
home&Away offers
This link will open in a new window 
See our latest offers on shopping, leisure, dining and more.
Support with your finances
If you've missed a payment, or think you might, it's important you let us know as soon as possible. We may be able to offer you support and help you better manage your finances.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/existing-customers/
########Top of main content 
Bank of England base rate 
Find out what a change to the Bank of England base rate could mean for you 
We'll explain how a change to the the Bank of England base rate could affect your mortgage, savings or other products. 
Go straight to:
The current base rate
Base rate change and your mortgage
Tools to work out your repayments
Frequently asked mortgage questions
Base rate change and your savings
Base rate change and other products
The current base rate 
The base rate has changed to 5.25%. There’s no need to call us – we’ll write to you if there are any changes to your payments as a result of the base rate increase on 3 August 2023.
The base rate is the interest rate the Bank of England charges on the money it lends to financial institutions like HSBC.
If the base rate changes, the interest rates that apply to financial products can change too. That's because the cost of providing some products is directly linked to the base rate.
How a base rate change could affect your mortgage 
A change in the Bank of England base rate could affect your mortgage, depending on the type of mortgage you have and how much the rate has gone up or down.
This table shows the effect of a base rate change on the interest rates for our mortgages. Not sure what type of mortgage you have or how much interest you're paying? Take a look at your most recent mortgage statement or check your online banking. 
Mortgage type Impact of base rate change 
Tracker rate
	
Your mortgage interest rate will change within a day. This will affect the amount of interest you pay. 
	
Fixed rate
	No change – the mortgage interest rate will stay the same until the end of the fixed rate period. When the fixed rate period comes to an end, your mortgage will usually move to our Standard Variable Rate (unless you have arranged to move to another fixed rate or another type of rate).
	
Standard Variable Rate
Buy to Let Variable Rate
	No automatic mortgage interest rate change – these rates are not directly linked to the base rate – but we do review these rates whenever the base rate changes.
	
Homebuyer CAT Standard
Homebuyer Variable Rate
Homebuyer Large Advance Variable Rate
	No automatic mortgage interest rate change – these rates are not directly linked to the base rate – but we do review these rates whenever the base rate changes. We guarantee that the interest rate will never be more than 1% above the base rate’.	
Second Charge Equity Release Loan Variable
Standard Extra Large Advance House Mortgage Rate
	Your mortgage interest rate will change within 30 days.	
Amanah Home Finance
	There is no impact to Amanah Home Finance products. We review mortgage rates periodically and will contact you when your rate changes.
	
This table shows the effect of a base rate change on the interest rates for our mortgages. Not sure what type of mortgage you have or how much interest you're paying? Take a look at your most recent mortgage statement or check your online banking. 
Mortgage type 
Tracker rate
	
Impact of base rate change 
Your mortgage interest rate will change within a day. This will affect the amount of interest you pay. 
	
	
Mortgage type 
Fixed rate
	
Impact of base rate change No change – the mortgage interest rate will stay the same until the end of the fixed rate period. When the fixed rate period comes to an end, your mortgage will usually move to our Standard Variable Rate (unless you have arranged to move to another fixed rate or another type of rate).
	
	
Mortgage type 
Standard Variable Rate
Buy to Let Variable Rate
	
Impact of base rate change No automatic mortgage interest rate change – these rates are not directly linked to the base rate – but we do review these rates whenever the base rate changes.
	
	
Mortgage type 
Homebuyer CAT Standard
Homebuyer Variable Rate
Homebuyer Large Advance Variable Rate
	
Impact of base rate change No automatic mortgage interest rate change – these rates are not directly linked to the base rate – but we do review these rates whenever the base rate changes. We guarantee that the interest rate will never be more than 1% above the base rate’.	
	
Mortgage type 
Second Charge Equity Release Loan Variable
Standard Extra Large Advance House Mortgage Rate
	
Impact of base rate change Your mortgage interest rate will change within 30 days.	
	
Mortgage type 
Amanah Home Finance
	
Impact of base rate change There is no impact to Amanah Home Finance products. We review mortgage rates periodically and will contact you when your rate changes.
	
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.

Any change to your mortgage interest rate will affect how much interest you have to pay.
If your mortgage interest rate changes, we'll automatically re-calculate your payments and send you a letter or a secure message through online banking with your new amount at least 17 days before your monthly payment.
For example, if the interest rate on your mortgage changes on 1 November and your payment is due on 5 November, payments for the new amount will start on 5 December.
If you're worried about interest rates and paying your mortgage, we can help. Read more about how you could manage or reduce your payments
Back to top 
Tools to help you work out your repayments
Base rate change calculator
Get a better idea of what a rate change could mean for your mortgage payments.
Repayments calculator
Work out how much your monthly payments could be.
Frequently asked mortgage questions
Can I fix my mortgage rate online? 
Yes, if you have a mortgage with us already, you can switch your mortgage to a different interest rate. Find out how to switch your rate.
We offer a range of fixed-rate mortgages that let you fix your rate and your payments for a set period. If the Bank of England base rate changes during your fixed-rate period, it won’t affect your payments.
I'm in the process of switching my mortgage rate, can I still \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/bank-of-england-base-rate/
########Top of main content 
Credit card repayment calculator 
Figure out how long it could take you to clear your credit card balance 
Want to know how long it could take you to pay off your credit card? Our calculator can help you work out how much you could increase your payments by and clear the balance faster.
Credit card repayment calculator
Use this calculator to help you work out how long it could take you to repay your credit card balance by making fixed monthly payments, and how much interest you’d pay.
Outstanding balance
How much is your credit card balance?
GBP
0
Annual interest rate
How much is the annual interest rate as a %?
%
0.00
Monthly repayment amount
The amount you’re able to pay each month towards your credit card balance.
GBP
0
GBP 0
GBP 30,000
Summary
Total amount payable 
---
Total interest payable 
---
Months to pay
---
Using the calculator 
the calculator should only be used as a guide and the results are approximate, based on the information you enter
you can find details of your outstanding balance and interest rates on your monthly statement. We suggest you enter the purchase rate (if you have a Premier World Elite Mastercard, make sure you use this rather than the APR)
the fixed monthly repayment amount you enter will need to be at least the amount of your minimum payment this month (if you owe less than £5, you’ll need to pay the full amount). You can see your minimum payment on your monthly statement. If you enter an amount which is less than the minimum, the calculator summary won’t show any results
remember that you need to make at least your minimum payment each month – but by fixing your payment, you’ll repay your balance sooner and pay less interest. Try adjusting the fixed monthly repayment amount to see how a small increase can make a difference 
Calculator assumptions 
The calculator results assume that:
you make a fixed monthly payment in the amount entered
you pay on time each month
you don’t keep spending on your card
interest is charged at a single fixed rate
you don’t have any other charges added to your account
What next? 
If you want to set up or amend a Direct Debit to make a fixed monthly payment, you can do this by submitting a simple e-form. You’ll need to make sure your fixed amount is more than your current minimum payment; if not, we’ll collect the minimum payment.
Find out more about credit card repayment options.
Find out more about fees and the interest rate on your HSBC credit card.
Complete our budget planner to see how much you could increase your monthly repayments by.
Explore how you can consolidate all your debts in one place and manage them more easily.
Discover how a balance transfer credit card can help you manage your debts. Eligibility criteria applies.
Worried about your money? 
If you’re struggling to make your credit card payments or there’s been an unexpected change in your circumstances, we’re here to support you. We can help find a solution tailored to your financial needs.
Money worries 
You may also want to consider support from external organisations for free professional advice. You can find out about free independent money advisers in your area from:
Citizens AdviceCitizens Advice This link will open in a new window
AdviceUKAdviceUK This link will open in a new window
National DebtlineNational Debtline This link will open in a new window
StepChange Debt CharityStepChange Debt Charity This link will open in a new window 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/credit-card-repayment-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Credit card fees and rates 
Understand more about fees and the interest rates for your HSBC credit card 
Be clear about what you could pay 
We'll explain what's meant by each fee and what you could expect to pay, depending on your credit card. So, you'll have a better idea of what may be payable and how to potentially avoid some fees in the future. Plus, find out more about your card's interest rates.
Go straight to:
Default fees
Including late fee, over-limit fee and returned payment fee
Other fees
Including cash advance fee, non-sterling transaction fee, annual fee, balance transfer fee and credit card instalment plan fee
Interest rates
Default fees 
There are 3 types of default fees you could face – late fees, over-limit fees and returned payment fees. 
Late fee: £12 
What is a late fee? 
If you're late paying your minimum monthly payment, you'll be charged a late fee of £12, which will appear on your next statement.
If you receive a refund to your account, it won’t count towards the minimum monthly payment. You must still pay the full minimum amount, unless the refund reduces the balance to less than the minimum payment.
How can I avoid this fee? 
To avoid a late payment fee, you could set up a Direct Debit. This means that the payment would be taken automatically each month. You can choose to set a Direct Debit to pay the minimum amount, a fixed amount or the full balance. Plus, you can also make additional payments as well as having a Direct Debit.
Set up a Direct Debit 
Over-limit fee: £12 
What is an over-limit fee? 
If you go over your agreed credit limit, you'll be charged an over-limit fee of £12, which will appear on your next statement. We'll apply the fee when you're first over the limit in any month.
How can I avoid this fee? 
To avoid going over your agreed credit limit, you could review your current limit and consider asking us to increase it. Think carefully about whether you need a higher limit, as this could increase the risk of borrowing too much, which could cost you more or take longer to pay off.
Change your credit limit 
Returned payment fee: £5 
What is a returned payment fee? 
If a payment from your Direct Debit or cheque is rejected, you'll be charged a returned payment fee of £5, which will appear on your next statement.
How can I avoid this fee? 
A returned payment fee could be due to insufficient funds in your account. You could consider changing the date of your statement and payment date, so that it's on a more convenient day of the month for you. To do this, give us a call on:
03457 404 404

Lines are open from 08:00 to 20:00 every day.
Or, you can change the amount of your Direct Debit.
Change your Direct Debit 
Back to top 
Other fees 
Cash advance fee: 2.99% (minimum £3) 
What is a cash advance fee? 
A cash advance fee is charged to your account when you use your credit card to withdraw cash or make a cash equivalent transaction, such as buying foreign currency or money orders.
Cash advances are different to making a purchase, because interest is always charged from the date you make the withdrawal or equivalent transaction, and it will also incur a different interest rate. The 2.99% fee (minimum £3) will be shown on your credit card statement.
Non-sterling transaction fee: 2.99% (minimum £3 for cash related payments) 
What is a non-sterling transaction fee? 
If you make a transaction on your credit card in a currency that isn't in pound sterling, for example if you're shopping abroad or using an international website, you'll be charged a non-sterling transaction fee.
The fee is currently 2.99% (minimum £3 for cash or cash related payments) and it applies on top of any other charge. So, for example making a cash transaction in euro will have two charges – a cash advance fee and a non-sterling transaction fee.
Find out about using your card abroad 
Annual fee 
What is an annual fee? 
For some credit cards there may be an annual fee. You can find out if your card has an annual fee when you apply, in the Summary Box or it will be in your Terms and Conditions.
Balance transfer fee 
What is a balance transfer fee? 
If you move your credit card balance from another provider to HSBC, there's usually a one-off fee. You can find out if your card has a balance transfer fee when you apply, or it will be set out if we send you an offer for a balance transfer.
Find out more about balance transfers 
Credit card instalment plan fee 
What is a credit instalment plan fee? 
If you're eligible to repay part of your credit card balance with an instalment plan, there'll be a monthly fee. The fee will depend on your plan amount and period, but it'll be the same amount for each month you have the plan. We'll tell you about any fees that apply before you take out an instalment plan.
Find out more about instalment plans 
Back to top 
Interest rates 
Using your credit card may mean you're charged interest. 
Looking to apply for a new HSBC credit card?
If you'd like to apply for a new credit card, you can find the card's interest rates when you apply, or in the 'Summary Box PDF'. Although, the interest rates you actually receive may be different as they'll be based on a credit check. 
Already have an HSBC credit card?
If you've got an HSBC credit card already, your card's interest rates will be set out in your agreement and shown on your monthly statement. Although, interest rates are variable and may be subject to change.
Take a look at the 'Summary Box PDF' for each credit card to find out more about the latest interest rates.
HSBC credit card summary boxes 
Balance Transfer Credit Card Summary Box (PDF, 148KB) Balance Transfer Credit Card Summary Box (PDF, 148KB) Download 
Purchase Plus Credit Card Summary Box (PDF, 148KB) Purchase Plus Credit Card Summary Box (PDF, 148KB) Download 
Rewards Credit Card Summary Box (PDF, 148KB) Rewards Credit Card Summary Box (PDF, 148KB) Download 
Premier Credit Card Summary Box (PDF, 189KB) Premier Credit Card Summary B\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/fees/
########Top of main content 
New to investing? 
We're here to help you start investing from £50. 
We're here to help you start investing 
Investing is a way to set aside money today to use in the future. Unlike with a savings account, there aren't any guarantees with investing, but your money could grow more over time. And, you could use a stocks & shares ISA as your investment account. 
For instance, the chart shows that:
£100 invested in the HSBC Global Strategy Balanced Portfolio on 1 September 2018 would have been worth £121.86 by 1 September 2023.
£100 invested in the HSBC Cash ISA would have only been worth £102.70 by the same date.
Our Balanced portfolio has a risk level 3 out of our range of 5 and is designed for new investors.
Remember, the value of investments can go down as well as up, so you may not get back what you invest. Also, keep in mind that past performance is not a reliable guide to future performance.
Sources: Morningstar and HSBC UK. In the portfolio calculations, dividends were reinvested and ongoing charges and account fees are included. 
Get to know more about investing 
How much do I need to start?	
Start investing with £50 – either a lump sum or regular payments.
Be sure to keep some money aside to cover for emergencies, so you're less likely to dip into your investment.
How long should I invest for? 
We recommend you aim to invest for at least 5 years – although, your money won't be locked away.
You can sell your investments and the money will be in your account within 5 days.
What should I invest in? 
For new investors, our ready-made portfolios are an easy place to start.
Our team of specialists will spread your money across a mix of investments. Just choose your level of risk and they'll take care of the rest.
How much risk should I take? 
That depends on how you feel about uncertainty.
Lower risk funds, like the one shown in the chart, aim to achieve a modest but stable return on your investment. Whereas, higher risk funds can offer you a higher potential reward with a potentially bumpier ride. 
	
Choose a portfolio to get started 
Our sustainable and regular portfolios are an easy way to start investing. First, you'll need to have an HSBC current account with us. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Sustainable portfolios 
Choose an HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolio 
Invest in a fund that puts your money behind companies who are adopting more sustainable practices. 
Each portfolio has a mix of investments and a different level of risk and potential reward. 
Invest on the go, wherever you are, with the HSBC Mobile Banking app. 
Get started Get started with a sustainable portfolio 
Regular portfolios 
Choose an HSBC Global Strategy Portfolio 
Invest in a ready-made fund, but the investments aren't all focused on sustainability. 
Each portfolio has a mix of investments and a different level of risk and potential reward. 
Invest on the go, wherever you are, with the HSBC Mobile Banking app. 
Get started Get started with a regular portfolio 
An award-winning way to invest 
Invest straight through your app 
We're delighted to be recognised with an 'Innovation in Digital Banking Award' for how we're helping our customers invest through our app. Why not try it for yourself?
Just open your app and scroll past your accounts. Then, select 'Investments' to get started.
The value of your investments can go up and down – so you could get back less than you invest.
Frequently asked questions 
What is an investment? 
An investment is putting aside money today to use in the future. Unlike with a savings account, there aren't any guarantees. But an investment could give your money more potential to increase in value over time. 
How does investing work? 
There are several ways to invest in the markets. 
If you're happy spending time doing your own research, shares could be a good option for you. When you buy a share, you're buying a stake in a company. It's best to invest in companies that you know and understand. Even then, investing in shares usually carries a higher risk than investing in funds.
If you want to spend as little time as possible investing, funds can be an attractive way to invest for beginners. Instead of choosing your own shares, you buy units in a ready-made basket of investments, that will then be managed for you. Investing in funds is way to spread your risk without having to buy lots of individual shares yourself. 
What is return on investment? 
Return on investment is the profit you generate from the money you invest.
When you invest in a ready-made portfolio, any profit is reinvested straight back into the fund with the aim of achieving higher growth over the long term.
Do you pay tax on investments? 
Tax is usually payable on any income from investments.
If you invest and use a stocks & shares ISA as your investment account, you can invest up to £20,000 each tax year without paying any UK income tax or capital gains tax on any income or growth. And, you don’t have to mention your ISA on your UK tax return. 
If you open a general investment account (GIA), any income will be liable for UK income tax and/or capital gains tax. Find out more on Gov.ukFind out more on Gov.uk This link will open in a new window. 
Tax rules can change and any benefits will depend on your individual circumstances.
How do I manage my portfolio? 
You can track your portfolio's performance and manage your investment straight through the app. Just select 'Investments' on your account screen to get started.
Or, read our step-by-step guide to learn how to manage your investments via online banking.
You might also be interested in 
Investment calculator
Use our calculator to see how your investment could potentially grow over time and under different market conditions.
Is investing worth the risk?
Get to grips with risk and learn how it could impact your money.
Investment goals
A smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the latest version of the app. 
Investing for b\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/new-to-investing/
########Top of main content 
Investment goals 
A smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the latest version of the app. 
Whatever your future holds, create a goal to help you get there 
If you've got a long-term goal in mind – like getting the keys to a new home or travelling the world in retirement, setting up an investment goal in the latest version of the app is a smart way you could get there.
You set your long-term goal. We’ll work out how much you'd likely need to invest each month to reach it.
Then, make a deposit or set up regular contributions – or both – and track your goal’s progress easily, all in one place.
Keep in mind that creating an investment goal will help you decide how much to invest, but the value of your investments will go up and down, so you could get back less than you invest. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Why create an investment goal? 
Take action 
No matter what you’re aiming for, the earlier you start investing towards your long-term goals, the sooner you could get there. 
Create a mix of goals 
Set up to 4 investments goals for different things – like a new home or car. Plus, see how close you are to reaching them in your 'Goal overview'. 
Manage your goals 
Organise your money towards different goals and keep your investments all in one place. And, easily invest more or change your goals at any time. 
Let us work it out 
Whatever goal you set, we’ll work out how much you'd likely need to invest each month to reach it. All you need to do is choose your goal. 
Visualise your goals 
You might have different things you'd like to aim for in life, like a new home and your child's future university course – but it can be hard to keep on top of them all.
Now you can put your goals into focus by logging them in the app and seeing them clearly – all in one place.
Invest towards your goals. See your progress. Start to make them real.
How it works 
What you can do 
Create a goal 
To set up your first investment goal, just open your app and select the ‘Plan’ tab at the bottom of your home screen. Then choose ‘Investment goals’ > ‘Set up goal’.
And that’s it. We’ll tell you how much you could need to contribute to an investment pot each month to reach your goal by your target date.
Decide how to invest 
You can decide how to invest – if investing is right for you. You can explore our ready-made portfolios, which are managed for you and could be an easy place to start.
After setting up your goal, we'll open you a HSBC Global Investment Centre (GIC) account to hold your investments in – if you don’t already have one.
Track and manage your goals 
You can then view your goal's progress in the app. You can increase or change your goal at any time.
Want to learn more about setting an investment goal?
Read our guide to investment goals 
Fees and charges 
There are no fees to set up an investment goal or to open a Global Investment Centre (GIC) account.
If you decide to invest, there's an annual account fee of 0.25% of whatever you invest. It's calculated using the average daily value of the assets within your account in the previous quarter and it's payable quarterly.
Fund managers also apply an annual management charge and there are other expenses which are deducted directly from the fund.
Before buying any fund, you’ll see a breakdown of all of the charges in the relevant Costs and Charges PDF.
An award-winning way to invest 
Invest straight through your app 
We're delighted to be recognised with an 'Innovation in Digital Banking Award' for how we're helping our customers invest through our app. Why not try it for yourself?
Just open your app and select your ‘Plan’ tab at the bottom of your home screen to create a goal and start investing towards it.
The value of your investments can go up and down – so you could get back less than you invest.
Who can set up a goal? 
To set up an investment goal, you'll need to:
be registered for and have the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app 
have an HSBC current account or savings account (excluding the Online Bonus Saver and Fixed-rate Saver)
be a UK resident with a permanent UK residential address
be at least 18 years old
not be a US national/citizen/resident (eg a US passport holder)
Before you start investing 
Make sure you've got an emergency fund to fall back on – ideally 3-6 months of expenses. This way you could be less likely to dip into your investment to cover any unexpected costs.
You should also aim to invest for at least 5 years. But, your money isn't locked away if you change your mind – you can sell your investments and access your money within 4 business days.
Ready to set up an investment goal? 
Already bank with us? 
If you've got the HSBC Mobile Banking app already:
Select the ‘Plan’ tab at the bottom of your home screen
Then choose ‘Investment goals’ > ‘Set up goal’
Don't yet have the app? Download it now. You can also register for digital banking when you download the app.
Download the app 
New to HSBC? 
If you're new to HSBC, explore our current accounts or savings accounts.
Then, you'll need to register for mobile banking before you can set up a goal and start investing towards it.
Frequently asked questions 
How much can I start investing with? 
You can start investing by setting up an investment goal in the app from just £1. You can make an initial deposit or set up regular contributions.
For all other ways to invest with HSBC, the minimum amount to start is £50 as a lump sum or regular contributions.
Find out how much you can withdraw from your investment pot.
Can I use my ISA for my investment pot? 
Yes if you already have one, you can use your Global Investment Centre (GIC) Stocks & shares ISA to set up an investment pot.
If you've not subscribed into your ISA in the previous tax year it will be inactive. Read our guide to find out how to reactivate your ISA.
When can I withdraw my money and is there a fee? 
You can withdraw your money at any time by selling your investment through t\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/goal-based-investing/
########Top of main content 
Bereavement help 
The death of someone close is always a difficult time. 
Dealing with practical matters and making important financial decisions can seem overwhelming when you’re experiencing grief. We’re here to support you throughout. 
Letting us know 
The quickest and easiest way of letting us know about a bereavement is by notifying us online.
When you begin, you'll be asked to:
share your details
share the deceased customer's details
upload any documents we'll need to close their accounts
Don't worry if you don't have all the necessary documents to hand right away. Once you've submitted the notification, you'll be sent a reference number by post or email. You can then use this reference number to upload further documents, without having to provide all your details again. Simply select 'Share bereavement details' and then choose the 'share more information' option.
Share bereavement details Share bereavement details This link will open in a new window 
Once you've submitted your notification, your information will be passed to our dedicated bereavement team, who'll be working to support you during this time. You can find out more about ways of notifying us, as well as potential next steps, on our What to do when someone dies help page.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
Important steps
What to do when someone dies
If you haven’t already, the first step you’ll need to take is to formally register the death. You may also want to locate the will, if there is one, arrange the funeral and notify other organisations.
Financial and emotional wellbeing
There’s a lot to think about when you lose someone. We have information to help you.
FAQs and important documents
We answer some of the most common queries about bereavement, plus there’s a glossary of useful terms and forms you may need to complete.
Useful information 
Bereavement support guide (PDF, 153KB) Bereavement support guide (PDF, 153KB) Download 
Delio â phrofedigaeth (Welsh - PDF, 910KB) Delio â phrofedigaeth (Welsh - PDF, 910KB) Download 
Bereavement advice for commercial customers 
Contacting us 
Call us 
To notify us of a bereavement
0800 085 1992
or +44 (0)114 252 0249 if you’re calling from outside the UK 
General enquiries
0345 850 0088
Lines are open 8:30 to 18:00, Monday to Friday and Saturdays 9:00 to 14:00 (excluding public holidays)
Or +44 (0)114 252 0249 if you’re calling from outside the UK
Visit us in branch 
Find your branch 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/bereavement/
########Top of main content 
Stocks & shares ISA 
Find out how to start investing with a tax-efficient stocks and shares ISA. 
A tax-efficient way you could grow your investments 
A stocks & shares ISA (Individual Savings Account) is an account that you can use for your investments.
It's a tax-efficient way to potentially grow your investments, because you can invest up to £20,000 in the current tax year, without paying any UK income tax or capital gains tax on any income or growth.
You can have different ISAs at the same time, such as a stocks & shares ISA and a cash ISA. But, you can only have one of each type and you must stay within the total annual limit of £20,000 across all ISAs.
Remember, investing has its downs as well as ups – so you could get back less than you invest. Plus, tax rules can change and any benefits will depend on your individual circumstances.
Investment goals 
Discover a smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the app. Investing carries risk – so you could get back less than you invest. 
Explore investment goals 
Eligibility criteria and fees apply. 
Who can open a stocks & shares ISA? 
You can open a stocks & shares ISA if:
you're at least 18 years old
you haven’t already subscribed to another stocks & shares ISA for the current tax year (you may still have subscribed to a cash ISA or another type of ISA)
you’ve not exceeded your £20,000 ISA limit for the current tax year
you're a UK resident for tax purposes

Need support before applying? 
If you think you might need support before making an investment decision, we can help you get specialist investment support.
Why invest with HSBC? 
Investments from around the world 
Join over 300,000 people in the UK who already invest with HSBC. Plus, we'll connect you to opportunities around the world.
Invest in a few steps 
You can invest here on the website or from your app. Then, track and manage your investment on the go in the app.
A range of options 
Whether you're new to investing or more confident with your money, we've got a choice of investments for you.
Easy access to your money 
You should aim to invest for at least 5 years. But your money isn't locked away – you can sell your investments and the money will usually be in your account within 4 business days.
How to open a stocks & shares ISA 
To open a stocks & shares ISA with us, you'll first need to have an HSBC current account. You'll also need to meet the eligibility criteria for the investment you'd like to apply for. Fees will apply.
1. Choose what you'd like to invest in 
You can invest in one of our sustainable or regular portfolios, or choose your own investments. Plus, get started from £50.
2. Open a stocks & shares ISA 
Once you've decided what to invest in, you can open a stocks & shares ISA as your investment account. And, it’ll be free from UK income tax and capital gains tax.
Sustainable portfolios
HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios aim to include investments that have a higher ESG score and lower carbon intensity than their market average.
Get started 
Regular portfolios
Choose an HSBC Global Strategy Portfolio that's already made, for an easy way to invest. Each portfolio has a different level of risk, contains a mix of global investments and is managed on your behalf. But, the investments aren't all focused on sustainability.
Get started 
Other investments with a stocks & shares ISA 
If you'd prefer a wider range of investment options, you can choose from a wide range of funds or shares. Once you've decided what to invest in, you can open a stocks & shares ISA.
Online fund platform
Research, buy, sell and switch investments online with our Global Investment Centre.
Online share dealing account
InvestDirect is our online share dealing account that puts you in control of your investments.
Frequently asked questions 
What are funds and shares? 
Funds are a ready-made basket of investments. When you invest in funds, you’re buying into a mix of assets, which may include shares, property, government bonds. 
Shares are units of ownership in a company. When you buy shares, you’re effectively buying a small stake in a company. Companies sell shares to raise money, which they then use to expand their business. Investors, known as shareholders, are then free to buy and sell some or all of those shares on the stock market at any time.
If you need help, call our specialist team on 03456 076 18003456 076 180 This link will open in a new window. Lines are open from 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
Can I have more than one stocks & shares ISA? 
Yes, you can subscribe to more than one stocks & shares ISA, but you can only pay a new contribution into one stocks & shares ISA per tax year. You can choose to open a new stocks & shares ISA with a different provider each tax year. 
You may also subscribe to a cash ISA or any other type(s) of ISA in the same tax year, subject to the overall subscription limit (which is £20,000 for the current tax year) and other eligibility requirements that may apply to other types of ISA. 
Please note, the value of tax benefits and reliefs depends on your personal circumstances, and tax rules may change in the future.
Can I transfer my existing ISA to HSBC? 
Yes, if you already have a cash ISA or a stocks & shares ISA with another provider you can transfer in funds or shares to an HSBC stocks & shares ISA. This doesn't count towards your current tax year limit. 
You could also sell some or all of your investments in your existing stocks & shares ISA and transfer the proceeds via cash into your HSBC stocks & shares ISA.
How to transfer an ISA to an HSBC Global Investment Centre account 
How to transfer an ISA to an HSBC InvestDirect account 
Will I be taxed on my stocks & shares ISA? 
Any income and capital gains you earn from the investments in your stocks and shares ISA will be exempt from UK income tax and capital gains tax. And, you don’t have to mention your ISA on your UK tax return. 
An\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/isas/
########Top of main content 
Funds 
Choose from our range of sustainable and regular ready-made portfolios to start investing, or to build your investment portfolio. 
An easy and convenient way to invest 
Looking for a more convenient way to invest? Our funds, also known as portfolios, contain a mix of global investments that fund managers will look after for you. This means that your investment will be spread across multiple stocks and shares, so you don't have to choose them yourself and your risk will be spread. 
You can keep your fund in a tax-efficient stocks & shares ISA or a general investment account (GIA). And, you can invest on the go with the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Remember, investing has its downs as well as ups – so you could get back less than you invest. Plus, tax rules can change and any benefits will depend on your individual circumstances.
Investment goals 
Discover a smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the app. Investing carries risk – so you could get back less than you invest. 
Explore investment goals 
Eligibility criteria and fees apply. 
Why invest in a fund? 
Start investing with £50 
Invest in a fund from £50. Then, you could set up regular payments from £50 per month.
Spread your risk 
A single investment in a fund is split across various stocks, sectors, regions and assets – which spreads your risk.
Easy access to your money 
You should aim to invest for at least 5 years. But your money isn't locked away – you can sell your investments and the money will usually be in your account within 4 business days.
A range of options 
Whether you're new to investing or more confident with your money, we've got a choice of investments for you.
Choose your fund 
Explore our portfolios and our Global Investment Centre to find the fund that could best suit you. If you apply online you won't receive investment advice, so if you’re not sure where to invest, or how much risk to take, find out about our investment advice.
Sustainable portfolios
HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios aim to be a more sustainable way to invest than our regular portfolios.
Regular portfolios
The HSBC Global Strategy Portfolios contain a mix of investments that are managed on your behalf.
Online fund platform
Research, buy, sell and switch investments online with our Global Investment Centre.
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a portfolio if:
you’ve got an HSBC current accountcurrent account This link will open in a new window or savings accountsavings account This link will open in a new window (excludes Online Bonus Saver and Fixed-rate Saver)
you’re at least 18 years old
you're a UK resident
you’re not a US national/citizen/resident (eg a US passport holder)
you've got at least £50 to invest
Or, you can use our Global Investment Centre to research your own investment funds.
What are the fees? 
There's no fee to open a stocks & shares ISA or a general investment account. And there is no fee to withdraw money from your investments. But ongoing fees and charges will apply.
Account fees 
This is 0.25% of the value of the investments, taken quarterly from your nominated HSBC account. For example, a £1,000 investment would have an account fee charge of £2.50.
Fund management charges 
This charge varies depending on the fund you choose and is calculated as a % of your investment value. This is taken by the fund manager, which means you don't have to pay it directly, as it's reflected in the valuation of the fund.
Before investing, you'll be shown the fund's specific cost and charges document, which has details and examples of all fees and charges.
If you need help, call our specialist team on 03456 076 180. Lines are open from 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
Frequently asked questions 
What are funds and shares? 
Funds are a ready-made basket of investments. When you invest in funds, you’re buying into a mix of assets, which may include shares, property, government bonds. 
Shares are units of ownership in a company. When you buy shares, you’re effectively buying a small stake in a company. Companies sell shares to raise money, which they then use to expand their business. Investors, known as shareholders, are then free to buy and sell some or all of those shares on the stock market at any time.
If you need help, call our specialist team on 03456 076 18003456 076 180 This link will open in a new window. Lines are open from 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
How do I set up and amend regular investments? 
To set up and amend regular investments just log on to online banking and set up a regular savings plan. Follow our step-by-step guide for our Global Investment Centrestep-by-step guide for our Global Investment Centre This link will open in a new window for details.
If you need help, call our specialist team on 03456 076 18003456 076 180 This link will open in a new window. Lines are open from 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
How do I manage my fund? 
If you invest in a regular or sustainable portfolio, you can track its performance and manage it straight through the app. Just select your 'GIC investment account' to research, buy or sell funds.
Investing in a different fund? Follow our step-by-step guidestep-by-step guide This link will open in a new window for details on how to manage your investments via online banking.
If you need help, call our specialist team on 03456 076 18003456 076 180 This link will open in a new window. Lines are open from 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
Do you offer index funds? 
Yes. We offer a wide range of index funds as well as single-asset and multi-asset funds on our online platform, the Global Investment Centre. 
If you're searching for a particular fund, go to our fund directoryfund directory This link will open in a new window. 
Or, if you want to browse a range of funds open an account with our Global Investment CentreGlobal Investment Centre This link\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/funds/
########Top of main content 
Dealing with separation 
Dealing with separation 
We understand that any relationship breakdown can be difficult and affect multiple aspects of your life.
At HSBC, we’re here to provide you with information about how separating from your partner can affect your banking arrangements and what to think about when you’re reviewing your finances.
Please note that we can only give general information here, so do speak to us if you need more detail about any financial arrangements you have with HSBC.
Useful information 
If you and your partner are separating you may have joint finances such as mortgages, bank accounts, savings accounts or loans that will be affected by the change in your circumstances.
You may also have joint insurance policies or bills that are paid using a joint account; these may need to be cancelled or transferred, or you may need to make other arrangements for payment.
Joint accounts 
If you have a current account, loan or investment in joint names you’ll need to contact the relevant bank, building society or any other provider to make them aware of your change in circumstances.
If you have any concerns regarding access to or use of an account, speak to your bank or building society to discuss what options are available to you, such as freezing the account.
Freezing an account should be given very careful consideration. On the one hand it may protect your position while you sort out your finances with your former partner. On the other hand, any important regular payments such as loan or mortgage instalments may be affected.
Usually, once an account is frozen both account holders will need to agree to any further payments, withdrawals or transfers from the account.
The impact of separation on joint accounts can differ from one bank to another, so always make sure you get specific information from whomever the account is with, including if you have an account with HSBC, as we can only give you general guidance in these notes.
Reviewing additional cards on a credit card account 
If your partner is an additional card holder on your credit card account you can choose to remove them. Please note, until they are removed, you will be responsible for whatever they spend on the card (as well as your own spending). If you do decide to stop their use of the card you should let them know as they may rely on the card for day-to-day spending.
Mortgages 
If you have a mortgage in joint names, you will both remain equally responsible for meeting the monthly payments (it is not the case that each of you is only responsible for paying half, even if one of you has moved out of the property). Please note that if one (or both) of you moves out of the property you will need to let your mortgage provider know.
It is important to try and agree with your former partner how you will continue to meet the mortgage payments. If you think that you may have difficulty in meeting your monthly mortgage payments you should speak to your mortgage provider at the earliest opportunity as they can often work with you to agree a suitable solution.
Savings 
It’s always best to try to come to an agreement with your former partner regarding joint savings. If you are able to reach an agreement it’s usually a quick process to transfer the money to accounts in your/their sole name.
You can obtain further information on the Money Advice Service websiteMoney Advice Service website This link will open in a new window.
Insurance 
Home Insurance 
If you have a joint home insurance policy you will need to inform your insurer of your change of circumstances and review your insurance arrangements to make sure they are suitable.
Life Insurance 
You may need to update your insurance company on your change of circumstances. If your former partner stands to benefit from your policy you should consider whether you want to notify the insurance company that someone else should benefit instead.
Updating your will 
A relationship breakdown may be an appropriate time to consider making a Will or reviewing an existing Will.
Further information 
Remember that the information above is for general guidance only. There will be important detail that you can only get from the banks, companies or other organisations your finances are linked to, so speak to them individually about your change of circumstances.
Help and support 
Contact us 
03457 404 404 
From outside the UK +44 1226 261 010
Lines are open 8am to 10pm every day
Visit us in branch 
Find a branch 
You may find the links below useful
Relate
Support and guidance from Relate This link will open in a new window 
Support and guidance to help you make this difficult transition easier for you and your family
Sorting out separation
Helps you through separation and divorce This link will open in a new window 
Helps you through separation and divorce
Money Advice Service
Help and advice on legal matters This link will open in a new window 
Help and advice on legal matters
Gov.uk
A-Z guide on Civil Partnerships, Marriages and Divorce This link will open in a new window 
A-Z guide on Civil Partnerships, Marriages and Divorce
Resolution
Provides information around family law This link will open in a new window 
Provides information around family law
Gingerbread
provides support to single parents This link will open in a new window 
Provides support to single parents
Citizens Advice Bureau
provides guidance on how to deal with relationship problems This link will open in a new window 
Provides guidance on how to deal with relationship problems
The website links provided are not maintained or owned by HSBC. HSBC is not liable for the accuracy of the information provided on these websites.
Back to Top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new windo\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/separation/
########Top of main content 
Sustainable portfolios 
HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios aim to be a more sustainable way to invest than our regular portfolios. 
Invest with a more sustainable aim 
HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios aim to include investments that have a higher ESG score and lower carbon intensity than their market average.
This means they aim to offer better environmental, social and governance scores than the average investment, and produce less carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (CO2e) per unit of activity.
Today we finance a number of industries that significantly contribute to greenhouse gas emissions. We have a strategy to help our customers to reduce their emissions and to reduce our own.
Remember, investing has its ups and downs – so you could get back less than you invest. Eligibility criteria and fees apply. Before you invest, make sure you have some money to fall back in case of any emergencies. This should ideally be 3-6 months of living costs.
Take a closer look 
Mix of global investments 
Each portfolio contains a mix of investments from over 50 different countries, giving you access to a world of opportunities. 
Managed by specialists 
Your portfolio will be managed by our investment specialists. Just choose your preferred level of risk and they'll take care of the rest. 
Choose your risk level 
Choose your risk level then rest easy knowing our specialists aim to keep your investments within it. 
Invest in a few steps 
You can invest here on the website or from your app. Then, track and manage your portfolio in the app, wherever you are. 
What makes our portfolios sustainable?	
Our investment specialists, HSBC Global Asset Management (UK) Limited, work out whether to invest in a company by scoring them against 3 sets of criteria – environmental, social and governance factors, known as 'ESG'.
Environmental – how the company impacts the environment. This includes carbon emissions, energy efficiency and its approach to climate change.
Social – how the company supports its employees, clients and communities. This includes customer satisfaction, gender diversity, racial and social justice, alongside equality and inclusion. 
Governance – how the company is run. This includes responsible business ethics and culture, financial reporting and pay structure.
HSBC Global Asset Management use internal research and data from third-parties to ensure at least 70% of the net asset value of the portfolios are invested across assets they consider to be sustainable. However, they can't certify third-party ESG measurement criteria themselves. The portfolios also contain some assets they don't define as sustainable. 
You can see the ESG scores of each portfolio and their carbon footprint in the portfolio factsheet PDF.
Keep in mind, there's currently no standard definition of 'ESG and sustainable investing'. Other providers may define it differently to the way we do. This means that you may find it hard to compare investments on a like-for-like basis.
It's also important to note that:
the benchmarks for ESG and sustainable investments may be different to those of regular investments
an ESG or sustainable portfolio may produce different returns to those that don’t consider these factors
there’s no guarantee that investing in an ESG or sustainable portfolio will match your personal sustainability ambition
Read more about sustainable investing 
More reasons to invest 
Start investing with £50 
Invest in a portfolio with £50 and choose to set up regular payments after your first investment. 
Invest with an ISA 
Invest up to £20,000 per tax year with a stocks & shares ISA, without paying UK income or capital gains tax on any growth. 
Make regular investments 
Set up regular payments from £50 per month after your first investment. 
Your money’s not locked away 
You should aim to invest for at least 5 years. But if you need to, you can sell your investments and the money will usually be in your account within 4 business days. 
The value of tax benefits will depend on your circumstances and tax rules may change in the future.
What does it cost? 
There's no cost to open a stocks & shares ISA or a general investment account. And there's no cost to withdraw money from your investments.
There will be ongoing charges for as long as you hold your investment, which we'll automatically take each quarter. For example:
Account fees: we charge an annual service fee of 0.25% for the running of your investment portfolio.
Other charges: fund managers also apply an annual management charge and other expenses. These will vary depending on the portfolio you choose.
Before investing, you can read the 'Costs and Charges' PDF for an estimate of the charges that may apply for that portfolio.
An award-winning way to invest 
Invest straight through your app 
We're delighted to be recognised with an 'Innovation in Digital Banking Award' for how we're helping our customers invest through our app. Why not try it for yourself?
Just open your app and scroll past your accounts. Then, select 'Investments' to get started.
The value of your investments can go up and down – so you could get back less than you invest.
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a sustainable portfolio if:
you’ve got an HSBC current account or savings account (excluding the Online Bonus Saver and Fixed-rate Saver)
you’re at least 18 years old
you're a UK resident – for tax purposes
you’re not a US national/citizen/resident (eg a US passport holder)
you've got at least £50 to invest
Need support applying? 
If you think you might need support before making an investment decision, we can help you get specialist investment support.
Ready to invest? 
Here's how to get started:
1. Decide how you feel about risk 
Select the portfolio with the risk level you're most comfortable with. Risk level 1 is the lowest and 5 is the highest. This indicates the investment's potential risk and reward. 
What do we mean by 'risk level'? 
Use these desc\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/products/sustainable-portfolios/
########Top of main content 
Assisting someone with their money 
Third party access relates to different ways of giving another person access to your bank account and the right to operate it.
Power of Attorney
If you're looking to register a Power of Attorney with HSBC to help manage someone's account, or you're not sure where to start, we're here to offer you help and support. 
Court of Protection Orders and Deputyship
You could apply for a Court of Protection Order to be appointed as a deputy for someone who has lost capacity. 
Third Party Mandate
If you're an HSBC customer, you can complete a third party mandate. This is an HSBC specific document which tells us that you'd like to give another person access to your bank account and the right to operate it. 
Table of contents 
Understanding third party access
Emergency contact
Guardianship orders for missing persons
Department for Work and Pensions
Emergency third party mandate
Independence Service
Understanding third party access 
Example of HSBC customer's circumstances Third Party Mandate Ordinary power of attorney Lasting power of attorney Enduring power of attorney
(only valid if written and signed before 1 October 2007)
Court of Protection order
Department of Work and Pensions appointee
Guardianship order 
You need help with account management for administrative convenience
Yes	
Yes	
Yes	
Yes
	
No	
No	
No	
You are going abroad and won't have access to accounts
Yes	
Yes	Yes	
Yes
	
No
	
No	
No	
You are physically ill, injured or disabled
Yes	
Yes	
Yes	
Yes
	
No
	
No	
No	
You are preparing for a time when you may become mentally incapable
No	
No	
Yes
	
Yes
	
No
	
No	
No	
You have lost mental capacity
No	
No	Yesif prepared before losing capacity
	
Yes
if prepared before losing capacity
	Yesif a lasting power of attorney or enduring power of attorney has not already been granted	Yesif a lasting power of attorney or enduring power of attorney has not already been granted
	No 




	
The customer is a missing persons No	No	No	No	No	No	Yes	
Understanding third party access 
Example of HSBC customer's circumstances 
You need help with account management for administrative convenience
	
Third Party Mandate 
Yes	
Ordinary power of attorney 
Yes	
Lasting power of attorney 
Yes	
Enduring power of attorney
(only valid if written and signed before 1 October 2007)
Yes
	
Court of Protection order
No	
Department of Work and Pensions appointee
No	
Guardianship order 
No	
	
Example of HSBC customer's circumstances 
You are going abroad and won't have access to accounts
	
Third Party Mandate 
Yes	
Ordinary power of attorney 
Yes	
Lasting power of attorney Yes	
Enduring power of attorney
(only valid if written and signed before 1 October 2007)
Yes
	
Court of Protection order
No
	
Department of Work and Pensions appointee
No	
Guardianship order 
No	
	
Example of HSBC customer's circumstances 
You are physically ill, injured or disabled
	
Third Party Mandate 
Yes	
Ordinary power of attorney 
Yes	
Lasting power of attorney 
Yes	
Enduring power of attorney
(only valid if written and signed before 1 October 2007)
Yes
	
Court of Protection order
No
	
Department of Work and Pensions appointee
No	
Guardianship order 
No	
	
Example of HSBC customer's circumstances 
You are preparing for a time when you may become mentally incapable
	
Third Party Mandate 
No	
Ordinary power of attorney 
No	
Lasting power of attorney 
Yes
	
Enduring power of attorney
(only valid if written and signed before 1 October 2007)
Yes
	
Court of Protection order
No
	
Department of Work and Pensions appointee
No	
Guardianship order 
No	
	
Example of HSBC customer's circumstances 
You have lost mental capacity
	
Third Party Mandate 
No	
Ordinary power of attorney 
No	
Lasting power of attorney Yesif prepared before losing capacity
	
Enduring power of attorney
(only valid if written and signed before 1 October 2007)
Yes
if prepared before losing capacity
	
Court of Protection order
Yesif a lasting power of attorney or enduring power of attorney has not already been granted	
Department of Work and Pensions appointee
Yesif a lasting power of attorney or enduring power of attorney has not already been granted
	
Guardianship order No 




	
	
Example of HSBC customer's circumstances The customer is a missing persons	
Third Party Mandate No	
Ordinary power of attorney No	
Lasting power of attorney No	
Enduring power of attorney
(only valid if written and signed before 1 October 2007)
No	
Court of Protection order
No	
Department of Work and Pensions appointee
No	
Guardianship order Yes	
Emergency contact 
If you're an HSBC UK customer, you can provide us with an Emergency Contact. This is an HSBC Group-specific request which tells us that you’d like us to speak with someone you trust if you’re unwell and unable to communicate.
When might you choose this option? 
You may choose this option if you’re unwell and haven’t yet agreed a Power of Attorney, or if you want the comfort of knowing we have contact information for your family or friends in cases of emergency.
Key features for you 
We’ll use information provided by your emergency contact to confirm your mental and physical wellbeing when you’re unable to.
We may call your emergency contact if appropriate, in the event of an emergency while you are in one of our branches; such as a fall or an accident.
Your emergency contact can also call us to tell us if you’re unwell and if you can’t communicate with us. We may use this information to tailor the way we communicate with you and manage your accounts while you’re unavailable, such as temporarily suspending repeat letters or calls.
Your emergency contact won’t have any access to your accounts and they won’t have authority to make decisions on your behalf. If you require help with your accounts, please see our list of the different types of Third Party authorities below.
How to apply 
You can provide us with your emergency contact details either in one of our HSBC UK branches, or by calling our Telephone Ba\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/assisting-someone-with-their-money/
########Top of main content 
Online share dealing account 
InvestDirect is our online share dealing account that puts you in control of your investments. 
Buy and sell shares online 
Open one of our InvestDirect share dealing accounts if you'd like to be hands-on and make your own investment decisions.
You'll be able to trade in UK and US equities, UK government bonds, investment trusts and a range of UK-listed exchange-traded funds.
Explore market research with our interactive tool, set up share price alerts and even test your trading strategy with a virtual portfolio – so, you can make smarter investment choices.
Share dealing carries more risk than investing in a fund. To spread the risk you could diversify your portfolio across shares and other investment types, such as funds. Not sure if share dealing is for you? Our ready-made portfolios could be an easier way to start if you're new to investingnew to investing This link will open in a new window.
Before you invest, be sure to have some money saved for emergencies – ideally 3-6 months of living expenses. That way you won't need to sell your investment to cover any unexpected costs. Remember, the value of investments go up and down, so you may not get back what you invest.
Why open an InvestDirect share dealing account? 
Do your own investment research 
Use an interactive tool to better understand market research, and even set up share price alerts. 
Test your trading strategy 
Create a virtual portfolio to test your strategy and see how you could aim to grow your money. 
Easy access to your money 
You should aim to invest for at least 5 years. But your money isn't locked away – you can sell your investments and the money will usually be in your account within 4 business days. 
Choose from 2 InvestDirect accounts 
We've got a choice of accounts, so you can open the one that best matches what you're looking to trade. 
Choose your account 
What you can do InvestDirect Invest Direct Plus 
Trade in UK equities, investment trusts, gilts (UK government bonds) and a range of UK-listed exchange-traded funds (ETFs)	Yes	Yes	
Trade in US equities listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ	No	Yes	
No trading limit	Trade up to the value of £20,000	Yes	
Discount for trading frequently	No 	Yes 	
Use your HSBC current account to pay for shares and receive money from any sales	Yes 	No 	
Use a separate investment account to pay for shares and receive money from any sales	No 	Yes 	
Option to open additional investment accounts for buying and selling shares in euros and dollars	No 	Yes 	
What you can do Trade in UK equities, investment trusts, gilts (UK government bonds) and a range of UK-listed exchange-traded funds (ETFs)	
InvestDirect Yes	
Invest Direct Plus Yes	
	
What you can do Trade in US equities listed on the New York Stock Exchange and NASDAQ	
InvestDirect No	
Invest Direct Plus Yes	
	
What you can do No trading limit	
InvestDirect Trade up to the value of £20,000	
Invest Direct Plus Yes	
	
What you can do Discount for trading frequently	
InvestDirect No 	
Invest Direct Plus Yes 	
	
What you can do Use your HSBC current account to pay for shares and receive money from any sales	
InvestDirect Yes 	
Invest Direct Plus No 	
	
What you can do Use a separate investment account to pay for shares and receive money from any sales	
InvestDirect No 	
Invest Direct Plus Yes 	
	
What you can do Option to open additional investment accounts for buying and selling shares in euros and dollars	
InvestDirect No 	
Invest Direct Plus Yes 	
Who can apply? 
You can open an InvestDirect share dealing account if:
you have an HSBC current accountcurrent account This link will open in a new window (excluding the HSBC Basic Bank Account)
you're registered for online banking
you're a UK resident
you're at least 18 years old
What are the fees? 
For either an InvestDirect or an InvestDirect Plus account, you'll pay a quarterly account fee of £10.50. This covers the costs of us running your account.
There's also a fixed fee for each trade you make depending on your account:
InvestDirect: online trading fee for UK shares is £10.50
InvestDirect Plus: online trading fee for UK shares is £10.50, or just £7.95 after your 9th trade in a calendar quarter
Other fees such as UK Stamp Duty Reserve Tax and a PTM Levy may apply. 
Useful documents 
HSBC InvestDirect Terms & Conditions (PDF, 428.8kB) HSBC InvestDirect Terms & Conditions (PDF, 428.8kB) Download 
HSBC InvestDirect Plus Terms & Conditions (PDF, 330KB) HSBC InvestDirect Plus Terms & Conditions (PDF, 330KB) Download 
Key features of HSBC InvestDirect and HSBC InvestDirect Plus (PDF, 217.9kB) Key features of HSBC InvestDirect and HSBC InvestDirect Plus (PDF, 217.9kB) Download 
Rates and fees for HSBC InvestDirect and HSBC InvestDirect Plus (PDF, 137.4kB) Rates and fees for HSBC InvestDirect and HSBC InvestDirect Plus (PDF, 137.4kB) Download 
HSBC InvestDirect Stocks & Shares ISA Terms and Conditions (PDF, 236KB) HSBC InvestDirect Stocks & Shares ISA Terms and Conditions (PDF, 236KB) Download 
Key features of HSBC InvestDirect Stocks & Shares ISA (PDF, 166KB) Key features of HSBC InvestDirect Stocks & Shares ISA (PDF, 166KB) Download 
Financial services compensation scheme information (PDF, 109KB) Financial services compensation scheme information (PDF, 109KB) Download 
Best execution disclosure statement (PDF, 60KB) Best execution disclosure statement (PDF, 60KB) Download 
Apply for InvestDirect 
Already an HSBC customer? 
Here's how to apply:
Log on to your online banking
Select ‘Products’, then select ‘Apply for share dealing'
Choose either an InvestDirect or an InvestDirect Plus account
Need some help before applying? Speak to a share dealing specialist on chat. 
Once you've successfully applied, your account will be ready to use within 3 working days. Then, you can manage your investments online or by phone. 
Log on and apply 
New to HSBC? Discover our current accounts
If you already bank with us, but you're not yet regist\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/products/invest-direct/
########Top of main content 
Losing your job 
No matter what you do and what financial position you’re in, losing your job can be a big financial shock. Aside from looking for work, one of your main concerns may be how you manage your money during this time. 
Here are some tips and also areas to look into.
Know your rights 
Depending on your circumstances, you may be eligible for a redundancy package. Your employer should have a process that outlines the conditions under which they provide redundancies and they’re legally required to provide a fair redundancy if you’ve worked for them for at least 2 years.
See Citizens Advice information on redundanciesSee Citizens Advice information on redundancies This link will open in a new window.
See if you're covered 
Do you have cover for income protection? If so, you may be able to make a claim with your provider. You might also be entitled to receive benefits to help you.
Look at the available benefits 
The government offers a range of benefits that can help you manage your money while you look for work. You can use this free calculator to find out if there are any you’re eligible for.
Build a budget 
It’s difficult to know, but how long do you anticipate being out of work? If you’re unsure, you can use 6 months as a starting point. With your current spending, how long would the money you have last? Don’t forget to factor in any upcoming costs that you know you’ll have to pay for in the near future such as car registration.
If you have a budget you may need to adjust it to help you manage your money during this time of transition. If you don’t have a budget, now may be a good time to create one to give you an idea of how long your money will last.
Even if it looks like you could last for 6 months at your current spending it could be a good time to think about areas of spending where you can cut back.
And if once you draw up your budget and don’t think you’re going to be able to make your money last there are some support services that may be able to help.
Getting help 
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can call our team of specialists on 0800 028 7183 to get a helping hand.
Lines are open:
08:00 - 18:00 Monday to Friday
08:00 - 16:00 on Saturdays
Please note, lines will not be open on public holidays. Calls may be monitored or recorded. 
There are also a number of independent organisations who can provide help and give general advice about managing money.
You can find out about free independent money advisers in your area from:
Citizens Advice - https://www.citizensadvice.org.ukhttps://www.citizensadvice.org.uk This link will open in a new window
AdviceUK - https://www.adviceuk.org.ukhttps://www.adviceuk.org.uk This link will open in a new window

The following helpline services can offer help and advice:
National Debtline - https://www.nationaldebtline.orghttps://www.nationaldebtline.org This link will open in a new window
StepChange Debt Charity - https://www.stepchange.orghttps://www.stepchange.org This link will open in a new window
Explore more
How to create a budget
Where to go for assistance
What to do if you fall behind on debt repayments
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/unexpected-change/redundancy/
########Top of main content 
How we can help 
If you're worried about money, get in touch 
If you don't think you'll be able to make your repayments to us in the near future, or have missed a payment already, please contact us as soon as possible. Our trained specialists are here to help, offering an income and expenditure review and working with you to develop a plan for sorting out your finances.
Speak to one of our specialists 
Call us on 0800 028 7183
Lines are open 08:00 - 18:00 Monday to Friday, and 08:00 - 16:00 on Saturdays (excluding public holidays).
Already receiving advice? 
If a debt-counselling organisation such as Citizens Advice is already helping you, we'll work with them.
Please note that we follow the Standards of Lending Practice, These set out how financial organisations deal with their customers and echo our desire to deal sympathetically and positively with people in financial difficulties. Depending on the type of account you have with us, we may share details of your repayment record with credit reference agencies.
Get more help and support
Do you have loan or credit card debts with HSBC? 
Call our Financial Guidance Team on 0800 028 7183.
Lines are open:
08:00 - 18:00 Monday to Friday
08:00 - 16:00 on Saturdays
Please note, lines will not be open on public holidays. Calls may be monitored or recorded. 
Do you have mortgage debts with HSBC? 
If you’ve already missed a payment, speak to us on 0800 085 2482. 
Lines are open:
Monday to Friday 08:00 to 18:00
Saturday 08:00 to 16:00
You can also use our chat service if you prefer.
Do you have debts with other companies and are employed? 
Contact StepChange Debt Charity at www.stepchangedebtcharity.orgwww.stepchangedebtcharity.org This link will open in a new window
Or call 0800 138 1111.
Lines are open 08:00 to 20:00 Monday to Friday.
Do you have debts with other companies and are unemployed? 
Contact National Debtline at nationaldebtline.orgnationaldebtline.org This link will open in a new window
Or call 0808 808 4000.
Lines are open 09:00 to 21:00 Monday to Friday and 09:30 to 13:00 Saturday.
Do you want general independent advice? 
Contact Citizens Advice at www.citizensadvice.org.ukwww.citizensadvice.org.uk This link will open in a new window.
Or contact Money Helper (formerly the Money Advice Service) at www.moneyhelper.org.ukwww.moneyhelper.org.uk This link will open in a new window.
Call 0300 500 5000.
Or contact Advice UK at www.adviceuk.org.ukwww.adviceuk.org.uk This link will open in a new window.
Call 020 7469 5700.
Do you want face-to-face advice? 
Contact Citizens Advice at www.citizensadvice.org.uk.
Do you want to check your credit record? 
To do this, you can contact one of the 3 main credit reference agencies in the UK. They are:
Equifax
Experian
TransUnion
Find out more about how to check your credit report with them. You can do this online, in writing or verbally.
Useful links
Managing your finances
Mortgage payment options
Payment protection insurance
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/money-worries/how-we-can-help/
########Top of main content 
Investment advice 
Tailor-made advice to help you make financial decisions. 
Personalised advice to make smart choices 
If you're looking for investment advice or financial advice, we’ll take the time to find out about your current situation before recommending products that are right for you.
Remember, investing has its ups and downs, so you could get back less than you invest.
You should aim to invest for at least 5 years – but your money isn't locked away. You can access it at any time.
Why get advice with us? 
Tailored advice 
We provide personalised advice based on your lifestyle and financial situation.
No initial advice fees 
Talk to us to find out if advice is right for you - there are no fees for the initial chat.
No obligation to invest 
Once you've received our advice, there's no obligation for you to take it (report fee applies).
Helping you make the most of your money 
To get advice from us, you'll need to have an HSBC current account and be registered for online banking. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Financial advice service
Financial advice is available if you've got £100,000 or more in savings or investments.
Whether you're looking for financial advice or standalone investment advice, we’ve got you covered.
From a bespoke financial plan that meets your investment, protection and retirement advice needs, to recommendations on where to invest, our advisers can help you get more from your money.
Other advice options
	
Please note, we no longer offer online investment advice. 
Alternatively, you might consider seeing an independent financial adviser. This guide from MoneyHelperMoneyHelper This link will open in a new window can help you find one.
Tools to help you invest 
Investment calculator
Use our calculator to see how your investment could potentially grow over time and under different market conditions.
Plan for your retirement
Access our guides, tools, investment products and wealth specialists to achieve your ideal retirement lifestyle.
You might also be interested in 
The benefits of financial advice
Learn about how financial advice could help you decide what might be right for you.
Is investing worth the risk?
Get to grips with risk and learn how it could impact your money.
Investing for beginners
Learn the basics of investing to work out whether it could be right for you.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/advice/
########Top of main content 
Financial advice service 
Whether you're looking for financial advice or standalone investment advice, we’ve got you covered. 
If you're looking for financial advice we can help 
Our financial advice could help you make the most of your money. Plan ahead and think about your finances now to help you create the future you're looking for.
We'll make personalised recommendations on many aspects of your financial life, from protecting your family to planning for your retirement. Plus, we can offer a range of investment options to help you achieve your goals.
You should aim to invest for at least 5 years – but your money isn't locked away. You can access it at any time.
Remember, investing has its ups and downs, so you could get back less than you invest. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Why get financial advice with HSBC? 
Tailored advice 
We provide personalised advice based on your lifestyle and financial situation.
Face-to-face appointments 
Book an in-branch meeting or a video call with our financial advisers at a time that suits you.
Dedicated specialists 
A specialist will help to determine which advice option is the most suitable for you.
A range of investment and insurance options 
We’ll recommend investment and insurance products, hand-picked from selected providers, including HSBC.
How it works 
Our usual financial advice process follows these 3 steps:
1. An initial call
This will be a friendly chat. We’ll just ask you a few questions about your current situation to find out whether our financial advice can help. We’ll outline the process and answer any of your questions.
2. Your planning review
Next, we'll arrange a meeting with one of our advisers for a more detailed discussion about your circumstances and future goals.
Your planning review will include:
understanding the level of investment risk you’re most comfortable with
explaining the total costs involved for the financial advice.
There aren't any fees for this meeting or obligations to proceed, but if you're happy to continue your adviser will create your bespoke financial planning report.
3. Our recommendations
Your personal adviser will arrange another meeting with you to talk through their bespoke recommendations.
They'll cover:
the range of recommended products hand-picked from selected providers, including HSBC
any questions you might have about our investment products
how to see the value of your investments online
any charges that apply
Who can apply? 
You can receive our financial advice if:
you have £100,000 or more in savings and investments
you have an HSBC current account and you're registered for online banking
you're at least 18 years old
you're a UK resident
you aren't a US national, citizen or resident (eg a US passport or green card holder)
If you decide to go ahead with our recommendations, you'll need an HSBC current accountHSBC current account This link will open in a new window and be registered for online banking. Not yet registered for online banking? Register nowRegister now This link will open in a new window.
What are the fees? 
Your adviser will explain all the fees and charges to you before you commit to any recommended advice.
If you take our advice you'll pay a one-off 2.75% fee (or a £960 minimum charge). If you decide not to take our advice you’ll pay a £420 report fee.
Ready to book an appointment? 
Our advisers are available for financial advice appointments in-branch or via a video call at a time that suits you.
To book your appointment:
Chat to us: use our online Chat to speak with a wealth specialist between 9:00 and 17:00, Monday to Friday.
Email us at: wealthadvicecentre@hsbc.co.uk and include your preferred contact number.
You might also be interested in 
Plan for your retirement
Access our guides, tools, investment products and wealth specialists to achieve your ideal retirement lifestyle.
Investment calculator
Use our calculator to see how your investment could potentially grow over time and under different market conditions.
Saving for your children's future
Different ways to save, which can help you give your child a head start in life.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/advice/financial-advice/
########Top of main content 
Financial and domestic abuse support 
We're here to help you take back control of your money
If you think you might be a victim of financial abuse, we're here to help you get back to managing your money yourself.
Browsing history 
If you’re concerned someone is monitoring your internet history or what you do online, you can remove your browser history.
How to delete your browser history 
Google Chrome
On the top right hand side, select ‘More’ (the 3 dots under the close window button), then ‘History’.
When the new window opens, select ‘Clear browsing data’ on the left hand side, then select from the drop-down menu how much history you want to erase.
Choose the boxes you want Chrome to delete, then select ‘Clear data’.
Internet Explorer
Select the ‘Tools’ button, choose ‘History’, select ‘More’ (the 3 dots next to the search icon)
Then select ‘Clear browsing data’
Or, click ‘X’ from the dropdown list to individually delete browsing data
Safari
Go to ‘Settings’, choose ‘Safari’
Then, tap ‘Clear History and Website Data’
Firefox
Select ‘Menu’, choose ‘Library’ then select ‘History’.
Select ‘Clear recent history’ and select from the dropdown menu next to ‘Time range to clear’ to indicate how much of the history you would like to erase.
Select ‘OK’ to delete your browsing data.
Incognito (Private mode)
If you use this mode, the browser won't store the search history, cookies or temporary files.
Exit button
Websites that offer domestic abuse support often have an ‘Exit’ button, which allows you to quickly exit the website. Familiarise yourself with where it’s located on each website.
What's financial abuse? 
Financial abuse is when someone takes control over another adult's finances. They could be doing this to reduce their victim’s independence, take advantage of them or in some cases make them reliant on them.
You might be suffering from financial abuse at the hands of someone you have a relationship with. It could be a family member, carer or someone who has third party authority such as a power of attorney.
At HSBC, we've signed up to UK Finance’s Financial Abuse Code of Practice (PDF, 123KB)Financial Abuse Code of Practice (PDF, 123KB) This link will open in a new window. This is because, we aim to support anyone who thinks they might be a victim of financial abuse, and we'll help them regain control of their finances.
How to spot financial abuse 
It can be difficult to spot financial abuse because there are many different ways someone could take control of another person's money. Here are some examples:
“My partner took out a credit card using my details and built up debt without me knowing.”
“I started to notice my cheque book was being used to pay bills that weren’t mine.”
“I didn’t have control of my debit card or access to online banking.”
UK Finance guide 
For more information on how we could help, read UK Finance's guideUK Finance's guide This link will open in a new window.
Get help with financial abuse now 
If you’re concerned about your situation, whether that's fraud or financial abuse or you know someone who might need our help, talk to us as soon as you can.
Request a call back 
If you're experiencing domestic or financial abuse, you can request a call back from our specialist team at a time when you think you'll be free to talk. 
Fill in the form and specify a time when you'd like us to call you. Please choose a date and time at least 48 hours in the future.
On the date and time you've requested, we'll call you from an unknown number.
If you confirm that you're free to talk, we’ll ask a couple of questions to confirm it’s you, and support you in the best way we can.
What happens when we call 
We'll call from an unknown number and start the conversation with: "Hello (your name), is now a good time to talk?"
If you say no, we'll terminate the call. 
If we haven't been able to make contact with you at the safe time you've given, we won't try another time. If we haven't been able to speak to you and you'd still like to speak to us, please submit another form.
Request a call back 
Online 
Chat to us straight through the app, or log on to online banking and look for the Chat icon on the right hand side.
By phone 
You can call us on 03457 404 404 to talk to us.
In a branch 
All of our branches offer a private Safe Space for you to use. Find out more about our Safe Spaces.
Prefer not to speak to us directly? 
If you'd prefer not to speak to us directly, there are other organisations that are good at listening or giving advice. Take a look at Other financial abuse support.
Tips to protect yourself 
Cards, PINs and passwords 
If you’re concerned that someone else has your card details or PIN, here are some ways to make your account more secure:
ask us to send you a new card
change your PIN at an ATM cash machine
change your log on details for online banking
Receiving post from us 
If it's difficult for you to receive post at your home address, you can:
opt for online statements – find out how
change your address so that your post goes to a trusted friend or family member instead – you’ll need to be registered for online banking, or give us a call to do this
Third party access to your account 
If you’re worried about the access that a third party has to your money or the financial decisions they make on your behalf, you can remove their access. Or, you can arrange for someone else trusted to have third party access. Find out more about third party access
Joint accounts 
If you need to change a joint account, you can ask us to change the way it’s set up. Both parties would have to sign for any transactions going out of the account.
This means your regular payments would still be made, but nothing else could go out of the account without your knowledge. You can also ask us to suspend the account to make sure that no transactions are made.
If you'd like to open a new account, take a look at our current accounts.
Credit cards 
If you have a credit card with us, check i\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/money-worries/financial-abuse/
########Top of main content 
Protection advice 
Talk to one of our advisers for a personalised recommendation 
Let’s talk about ways to protect what’s important to you 
What are the most important things in life? Many people would place family at the top of the list. We all know we need a financial plan to protect those we love. But how much cover is enough? And which policy to choose?
To help you decide, you can talk to one of our financial advisers. They’ll spend time getting to know your situation. Then they'll recommend a policy that's right for you - from our hand-picked list of providers.
Are you eligible? 
You can access protection advice if you’re:
an HSBC current or savings account customer (excludes Basic Bank Account)
a UK resident 
at least 18 years old
How to apply 
Flexible protection advice that fits around you 
Tailored to your needs 
Find out what’s the right level of protection for your family’s needs 
Discover which of our carefully selected policies suits you best 
Call us today for a no-strings chat – we’ll explain everything upfront so you know what to expect 
From the comfort of your own home 
Personalised advice given over the phone or by video call – no need to leave the house 
Option to use screen-sharing technology so you can see everything online during the call 
You can even sign the relevant forms online 
What type of protection are you looking for? 
Our specialist advisers can provide personalised recommendations on 3 different types of cover:
Life cover: provides a lump sum or monthly income for your family if you were to die or become terminally ill
Critical illness cover: provides a lump sum for you if you were to be diagnosed with a number of pre-specified major critical illness conditions and surgical procedures. It may also be combined with a life cover policy (known as ’Accelerated Critical Illness Cover’)
Income protection: provides monthly income for you if you were to become unable to work due to sickness or injury
Naturally, some terms, conditions and exclusions will apply. Please ask your adviser for more details.
Which protection policies do we recommend? 
The plans we recommend are sourced from a carefully-selected panel of providers. This means we can advise you on a much wider range of policies than those that are available to buy directly from our website.
Your adviser will discuss with you the types of policies we can recommend before you begin.
How does it work? 
Our qualified advisers make personalised recommendations over the phone. Using screen-sharing technology, they can also show you information via your computer if you want them to.
We typically provide protection advice over a series of 3 phone calls – although this can be adapted to suit you.
Your initial call
The first call will be a friendly, no-strings chat – we’ll simply ask you a few questions to understand if you might benefit from our protection advice. We’ll also outline the process and answer any questions you may have.
Your protection review
Next, we'll arrange a follow-up call with a qualified financial adviser who will explore your protection needs in more detail. If your partner would like to attend, we can discuss their needs at the same time if you wish. It’s not a hard sell, it’s about helping you to put a plan in place.
With the option to share information from their screen to yours, they’ll ask about your finances and your dependents. They’ll also explore the various commitments you’d need to cover if something were to happen. 
Our recommendations
If you’re happy to proceed, your adviser will then prepare your personalised report and arrange a final call to talk you through the level of protection they recommend and why. 
What does it cost? 
You won’t pay a penny for receiving our protection advice – and you’re under no obligation to follow our recommendations.
If you decide to take out the recommended policy, you’ll pay for the cost of the policy and we’ll receive a commission from the protection provider. You’ll find details about this in the policy’s key features document.
Book an appointment 
Our advisers are available for protection advice appointments in-branch or via a video call at a time that suits you.
To book your appointment, just send us an email and include your preferred contact number.
Email us at: wealthadvicecentre@hsbc.co.uk
You might like
Do you need life insurance?
Understand when you may or may not need life cover, to decide when it could be right for you.
Saving for your children's future
saving for children 
Different ways to save, which can help you give your child a head start in life.
The benefits of financial advice
The real benefits of financial advice 
Learn about how financial advice could help you decide what might be right for you.
Protecting your lifestyle
protecting your lifestyle 
How to keep your finances happy if you couldn’t work.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/protection-advice/
########Top of main content 
Managing your finances 
Practical steps to get you back on track 
If mounting debts leave you struggling to keep on top of your finances, we can help you get back in control. Take a look at the practical steps below and discover simple and straightforward ways to reduce your spending, increase your income and review your financial commitments.
Reducing your spending 
Before you look for ways to reduce your spending, you should always pay for essential items such as: your mortgage, rent, gas, electricity, water, council tax and insurance. If you don't make these payments it could lead to repossession, cutting off supplies or a court appearance.
Now look at your non-essential outgoings to see where you can make savings. This could include items such as: cigarettes, entertainment and clothing. 
Increasing your income 
Make sure you're claiming everything you're entitled to.you're claiming everything you're entitled to. This link will open in a new window This could include: family credit, housing benefit, income support, council tax benefit and benefits for people with disabilities. Trade unions and professional bodies often help members and students may get special support.
You could consider working additional hours or taking an alternative job or selling some assets to reduce your debts.
Checking your tax payments 
If you're working, check your tax codecheck your tax code This link will open in a new window to make sure you aren't paying too much tax. If you work part time, contact your local Tax Office to see if you are entitled to a rebate.
Reviewing your loans 
If you're finding it difficult to make your loan repayments, you should contact your lender immediately. They should work with you to develop a payment plan you can afford.
If you have a mortgage 
If you have a mortgage with HSBC, take a look at our guide to managing your mortgage repayments.
If you have an overdraft 
If you have an overdraft with HSBC we can discuss whether it's the most affordable option for you. For example, an arranged overdraft may cost you less in fees than frequent unarranged overdraft requests. Alternatively you may find another form of borrowing is cheaper for you, such as a personal loan if you have a sizeable overdraft.
If you are considering using a Home Loan to refinance existing debt please read our Debt Consolidation Fact Sheet (PDF).Debt Consolidation Fact Sheet (PDF). This link will open in a new window
If you have a credit card 
If you have a HSBC Credit Card, stop using your card and continue paying at least the minimum payment. Because the interest rate on credit cards is generally higher than on other types of credit, you should aim to pay off your credit card balance as soon as possible. 
If you have other loans 
You should discuss with your lender what you can afford to pay and when. You may even be able to stop making payments for a few months and make up the difference later.
Useful links
How we can help 
Managing your mortgage payments 
Payment Protection Insurance 
Everyday budgeting 
Frequently Asked Questions 
I'm struggling with my finances, who can I talk to? 
If you've already missed a payment, or are worried you may miss one in the future, please call our UK-based team of specialists on 0800 028 7183 to discuss your options.
Lines are open 08:00 - 18:00 Monday to Friday, and 08:00 - 16:00 on Saturdays (excluding public holidays).
Will the information I give you over the phone count against me in any way or will it be treated in confidence? 
We will use the information you give us in order to ensure any lending decisions we make are in your best interest. Rest assured, we will never divulge any confidential information you give us to other companies.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/money-worries/managing-your-finances/
########Top of main content 
Gambling support 
Helping you understand how gambling can affect your financial wellbeing and what you can do today 
We're here to help 
We've been working hard in recent years to help you make sure you're spending safely. Our dedicated team has options to help you take the next step towards controlling what you spend on gambling.
Have you noticed any of these behaviours lately?
Gambling affecting relationships with friends, family or colleagues.
Missing social and family events.
Skipping school, college, university or work.
Increased or uncontrollable spending.
Losses are leading to debt.
You feel like you can’t stop.
Concealing or lying about your gambling.
Significant time spent gambling.
You find it difficult to stop thinking about gambling.
Why it's important 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Taking the next steps 
We understand that staying on top of your finances can be difficult sometimes. That's why we're here to help people discover how to take control of gambling related spending, and look forward to a brighter future.
I want to freeze my uncontrolled spending 
You can control gambling related spending on any of your debit cards (including the Pay by Bank app) by turning on a gambling restriction.
When a restriction has been turned on for a card, we won’t allow payments that we know, or suspect, are related to gambling. We can't guarantee we'll be able to identify all gambling related transactions, so you'll still be liable for any that do go through.
When a restriction is turned on for a card, you’ll receive a text message every time we decline a gambling-related transaction on your behalf.
How to turn a restriction on or off 
The easiest way to turn a gambling restriction on your debit card on or off is by using the mobile app:
Log on using your Digital Secure Key
Tap on the account for the debit card you want to apply gambling restrictions to
Go to ‘View more’ and select ‘Manage cards’
Select ‘Gambling restrictions’
Next to ‘Gambling restrictions’ move the toggle button to the right to turn on the restriction
Repeat these steps for any more eligible cards
To turn off a gambling restriction, follow the same steps as above but move the toggle next to ‘Gambling restrictions’ to the left.
You can also get help by calling us or visiting one of our branches.
Download the app
For more information on how the gambling restriction works, see our frequently asked questions.
I want to take a different route 
There are different ways we can support you to take control of your gambling related spending.
Reduce your cash machine withdrawal limit 
You can reduce the amount of money you can withdraw each day from a cash machine with your debit card. To find out more, please visit us in a branch, or call us on 03457 404 404.
Talk to one of our dedicated team 
If your mental health is affecting your ability to manage your finances, when you’re ready to speak to us you can call us on 03457 404 404 from 08:00 to 20:00 every day.
Use our online chat service 
We have a Chat service so you can speak to someone without having to call. Simply log on to online banking and select the ‘Chat’ button. Or to talk to us through your mobile app, log on and select ‘Support’ and then ‘Chat with us’.
Frequently asked questions
What types of gambling transactions will be declined if a gambling restriction is turned on? 
All gambling companies are categorised with a gambling related code. The following transaction types with these companies will not be authorised if you have turned on a gambling restriction:
In-store point of sale transactions and online e-commerce transactions (excluding transactions made via Open Banking)
Chip and PIN including contactless
Digital Wallet transactions such as Apple Pay, Google Pay or Samsung Pay
Recurring card subscriptions such as The Postcode Lottery
Pay by Bank app transactions to gambling merchants where the restrictions are applied via the debit card of the relevant account
If a company has not been categorised with a gambling related code, we won't be able to identify transactions to it as gambling related.
I have a joint account. If I turn on a gambling restriction, will it also apply to anyone else on the same account? 
No, gambling restrictions only apply to your debit card (and any Power of Attorney registered to you). For joint accounts, each person will have to set their own gambling restriction preferences on their cards.
How do I update my number to make sure I get text messages informing me a transaction has been declined? 
To update your mobile number with us please log on to online banking, or contact us on 03457 404 40403457 404 404 This link will open in a new window. If we have your mobile number, we'll send you an SMS when any transaction using your HSBC UK debit card is declined due to a gambling restriction you've turned on.
Can I turn off a gambling restriction immediately? 
We’ve introduced a cooling off period that applies whenever you ask to turn off a gambling restriction after it has been turned on. This means you can choose to turn off a gambling restriction at any time, but we'll still decline gambling related transactions for 3 days after the restriction is turned off. This cooling off period allows you to think about whether it's the right decision.
If you change your mind during the cooling-off period and want to continue having the gambling restriction turned on, this can be done immediately.
Can I turn off gambling transactions on my credit card too? 
Gambling businesses in the UK can’t accept cred\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/gambling-restrictions/
########Top of main content 
Investing for your retirement 
Get set for life beyond work 
Invest for your future 
A pension isn't the only way to save for your retirement. If you've already used your pension allowances, or if you want more flexibility than a traditional pension, investing could be right for you.
From ready-made portfolios to investment calculators and advice, we've got a range of options to help you choose.
Remember, investing has its downs as well as ups – and you could get back less than you invest.
Why start saving with us? 
Investing for everyone 
Whether you're new to investing or confident, we've got investments for you. And, you could start with as little as £50 per month.
Automatic investments 
You can set up an automatic investment, so there's less for you to think about each month.
Managed by specialists 
We can manage your portfolio on your behalf, so you can be sure your money's in good hands.
Invest with a stocks and shares ISA 
Get more from your money by investing with an ISA (individual savings account). 
Arrange a call back 
Leave your details and one of our wealth specialists will call you back to talk about how we can help.
An easy place to start 
Take a look at our different investments to find what could be right for you. If you're new to investing our portfolios are an easy way to start, or if you're more confident you can invest in our wide range of funds. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Ready-made portfolios
Choose from our range of ready-made investment portfolios with different levels of risk.
Sustainable portfolios
Choose from 5 sustainable investment portfolios that aim to invest in companies with a higher than market average environmental, social and governance (ESG) score.
Online fund platform
Already a confident investor? Choose from our wide range of funds, from HSBC and other leading fund managers, in our Global Investment Centre.
Tools to help you choose 
Investment calculator
Use our calculator to see how your investment could potentially grow over time and under different market conditions.
Investment goals
A smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the latest version of the app.
Learn more about investing for your retirement
New to investing
We'll show you what you need to know to help you get started.
Saving vs investing
Find out what the difference is between saving and investing, and which could be right for you.
What's a stocks & shares ISA?
Understand how an investment ISA works and what to consider.
Retirement 
We've put together some helpful guides and a clever calculator to help you start planning for your ideal retirement lifestyle.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/investing-for-retirement/
########Top of main content 
Your financial action plan 
4 steps to help you build a better financial future. 
Taking action feels good 
In these uncertain times, it can help to focus on the things you can control. Having a solid financial plan can help you save money, get out of debt and be able to cope with setbacks.
It can also bring you closer to your long-term goals. These could include a trip of a lifetime, owning your own home, saving for further education or a comfortable retirement. 
No matter what your financial situation looks like, you can make some positive changes. The key is to get started. Because these first few steps could be the beginning of a very different future.
Remember – if money worries are making you feel anxious – you're not alone. Support is available to help you get back on track and feel more confident. 
Create a budget and save where you can 
Start an emergency fund 
Protect the things that matter 
Invest in your future 
1. Create a budget and save where you can 
Creating a budget is a vital step towards feeling in control of your finances. You could use our budget planner to help figure out where your money’s going – and where you could cut back.
Your goal with a budget is to have money left over each month to save, or pay off debt. Even small changes can add up. For example, saving just £2 a day would give you £730 a year.
Not sure where to start? These questions might help:
When was the last time you reviewed your big costs? 
For most people, their rent or mortgage is their biggest expense. To save money, you may consider moving to a cheaper rental property. Or if you’re a homeowner, you may be able to switch your mortgage rate or remortgage to a new lender to find a better deal. Make sure you check the costs of switching or remortgaging so you have the full picture before you commit.
Do you have expensive credit card debt? 
Balance transfer credit cards, ideally with 0% interest, can be a good way to manage your debt and save you money. As long as you use your balance transfer credit card wisely. If you owe money on more than one card or have loans to repay, it can help to prioritise your debt. The faster you clear your debt, the less interest you'll pay. If you’d like help with managing debt or just need somebody to talk to, get in contact – there are lots of people here to support you.
Do you know how much your other bills are? 
Utility bills, phone, broadband, subscriptions and memberships can all add up. By doing a little research, you may be able to switch providers to lower your monthly payments.
Are you a mindful shopper? 
It’s easy to spend money on things we don’t need, especially online. Before you add an item to your basket, ask yourself if it’s essential or genuinely going to make you happy. You may be surprised how much money you can save by taking some time to think before you buy.
The secret to success with sticking to a budget, is to be mindful of where your money goes. If you’re an HSBC customer, we have technology and tools you can use to help you manage your money.
Understanding your income and expenses can reduce your stress – and help you spend less than you earn. Making a note of when bills need to be paid and setting up Direct Debits can help you be prepared. You may also want to try putting money aside each month to cover yearly bills, such as home insurance, tax or MOTs.
Use our financial fitness tool to help you set achievable goals and plot your progress.
2. Start an emergency fund 
As you begin to save money each month, you can use it to start building up some reserves. This way, if you’re hit with an unexpected bill, you’re more likely to have money spare, rather than needing to borrow.
It’s a good idea to have 3 to 6 months’ worth of living costs saved up for your emergency fund. It can take some time to get there, and that’s OK. If you want to create a timeline to work towards, you can use our emergency fund calculator to help see how long it may take you to reach your goal.
These saving tips may also help you start building up your savings:
save your cash in an instant-access account, so you can withdraw it if you need to 
transfer money into your savings account on the day you're paid 
set up a standing order so the money gets moved automatically 
add any extra money you’ve got spare at the end of the month 
postpone the luxury purchases until your emergency fund is in place 
Having cash on hand as a buffer – no matter how much money you earn or whether you have debt – has been linked to an increase in life satisfaction and feeling more financially secure.
Explore: Different types of savings accounts
3. Protect the things that matter 
An emergency fund is great for short-term emergencies. But if something terrible or unexpected was to happen – and sadly, we all know cases where it has – an emergency fund will only go so far.
For example, if you have people who depend on you financially – a partner, children or perhaps an ageing relative – it may be worth considering life insurance to support your loved ones for years to come.
Having insurance in place can protect the things that matter to you. Not just your family – but also your pets, home, business or belongings. It can also protect your income and any savings you have, by providing a safety net to help you pay for unexpected expenses. 
Explore: Insurance to protect what matters to you
4. Invest in your future 
If you’ve managed to save money, pay off debt and build up an emergency fund – great work. You're in a stronger position than many people. And this is the ideal place to start looking to the future to help make your long-term goals happen.
So, how can you make your hard-earned cash work harder? 
Don't ignore your pension! 
Pensions offer tax advantages over other forms of savings. If you’re enrolled into a workplace pension or have chosen to take advantage of your employer’s scheme, you’ll already be benefitting. That’s because both you and your employer will be paying\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/financial-action-plan
########Top of main content 
Direct Debit support 
Find out more about Direct Debits and get guidance on the different ways you can set up, amend or cancel them. 
Take me straight to 
What is a Direct Debit? 
How to set up a Direct Debit 
How to amend or cancel a Direct Debit 
Frequently asked questions 
What is a Direct Debit? 
A Direct Debit can be a good way to make sure your household bills and other regular outgoings are paid on time. 
When arranging a Direct Debit, you agree terms like the payment date and amount with the company billing you. This gives them permission to automatically take payments from your account on an agreed schedule - for example, each month.
How to set up a Direct Debit
1. Get your details together
You'll need: your name and address, your bank's name and address, your account number and sort code.
2. Fill in the form
This could be online, or you may need to request a physical form from the company. There might also be an option to give your details over the phone.
3. Finalise set-up
The company will arrange the Direct Debit using the details you've provided.
4. Payments begin
The first payment will leave your account on the date you agreed and continue until the Direct Debit is cancelled.
How to amend or cancel a Direct Debit 
To amend a Direct Debit, you'll need to contact the company directly.
If you want to cancel a Direct Debit altogether, it's usually quickest to do it in online or mobile banking. You need to cancel at least 2 working days before your next payment is due, otherwise the money may still be taken from your account. Before the final payment date, you should also inform the company to make sure they end the contract. 
1. Log on
Log on to online banking - you'll need your Secure Key.
2. Find your Direct Debit
Select 'Direct Debits' from the quick links section, choose the relevant account and find the Direct Debit you want to cancel.
3. Select 'More information'
Select the 'More information' icon.
4. Cancel your Direct Debit
Choose 'Cancel' and follow the on-screen instructions.
Cancel a Direct Debit online Cancel a Direct Debit online This link will open in a new window 
Cancel with mobile banking 
1. Log on
Log on to the app and select the relevant account.
2. Find your Direct Debit
Choose 'Manage bills' then select the Direct Debit you want to cancel.
3. Cancel your Direct Debit
Select 'Cancel Direct Debit' and 'confirm' to complete the cancellation.
Other ways to cancel 
It's usually quickest to cancel a Direct Debit online or in the app, but you can also cancel by phone or in person.
By phone
Call us on on 03457 404 404 with the details of the Direct Debit you want to cancel. We're open between 08:00 and 22:00 every day (except for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day).
At a branch
If you're cancelling your Direct Debit in person, make sure you have some identification such as a passport or driving licence.
Find your nearest branch
Frequently asked questions 
What's the difference between a standing order and a Direct Debit? 
A Direct Debit is an instruction you give to your bank that authorises a company to take payments from your account when they're due. It's usually used to pay something like a monthly, quarterly or annual bill or fee. 
A standing order is a regular payment set up by you. You decide the amount, and you can change it if you want to.
A standing order usually goes from your account to:
a friend or family member
a company
one of your other bank accounts (e.g. your savings)
Am I protected if something goes wrong with my Direct Debit? 
In the rare event that a payment is taken by mistake, all Direct Debits are protected by the Direct Debit Guarantee. 
Find out more about the Direct Debit GuaranteeFind out more about the Direct Debit Guarantee This link will open in a new window
Explore more
Request a Direct Debit refund
If a Direct Debit doesn’t look quite right, you can request a refund in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Standing order support
How to set up, amend or cancel a standing order.
Making payments
Find out how to send money in a way that works for you.
International payments
Send money from the UK easily and securely, 24/7.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/how-to-set-up-a-direct-debit/
########Top of main content 
Standing order support 
Find out more about standing orders and get guidance on the different ways you can set up, amend or cancel them 
Take me straight to 
What is a standing order? 
How to set up a standing order 
How to amend a standing order 
How to cancel a standing order 
Frequently asked questions 
What is a standing order? 
A standing order is a regular payment from one account to another. It's for a fixed amount, that can be amended by the person making the payments.
A standing order could be used to make payments to a company, someone you know, or to one of your own accounts (savings, for example). You can set the standing order to end on a certain date, or after a specific number of payments. 
How to set up a standing order 
You can set up a standing order between your own HSBC UK accounts or to an existing personal payee on the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
You’ll need to set up a standing order at least 2 working days before the payment is due to make sure it goes through on time.
Set up with mobile banking 
1. Log on
Log on to the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
2. Go to 'Pay & Transfer'
Select ‘Pay & Transfer’ then ‘Make a payment or transfer’.
3. Select your account
Choose the account you want to pay from.
4. Select your payee
Choose the account you want to send money to, either one of your own HSBC accounts or an existing payee.
5. Toggle standing order on
Follow the on-screen instructions and toggle the 'Standing order?’ option to on.
6. Confirm
Complete all the required information and check the details carefully before continuing and confirming.
Set up with online banking 
If you're registered for online banking, you can set up a standing order online. You’ll need to do it at least 2 working days before the payment is due to make sure it goes through on time.
1. Log on
Log on to online banking and select 'Pay and transfer' from the quick links section.
2. Select your account
Choose the account you want to pay from.
3. Select your payee
Choose the account you want to send money to, either one of your own HSBC accounts, a saved payee or a new payee.
4. Confirm it's a standing order
Follow the on-screen instructions. When asked if it's a standing order, select 'Yes'.
5. Enter details
Confirm the frequency, start and end dates of the standing order.
6. Generate transaction code
Generate a code with your Secure Key to authorise the transaction. For help, see making payments.
Other ways to set up a standing order 
It's usually quickest to set up a standing order online, but you can also do it by phone or in person. 
By phone
To set up a standing order over the phone, view your contact options on our phone banking page.
At a branch
If you're setting up a standing order in person, make sure you have the details of who you're paying and some identification, such as a passport or driving licence.
Find your nearest branch
How to amend a standing order 
To change the amount of a standing order, let us know at least 1 working day before the payment is due to go out. If you want to change any other details, you'll need to cancel the existing standing order and set up a new one.
You can amend the amount of a standing order with our mobile app or online. You can also do it over the phone or in branch.
Amend with mobile banking 
1. Log on
Log on to the HSBC Mobile Banking app and select the account the standing order is set up on.
2. Go to 'Manage bills'
Select 'Manage bills' and you'll be able to see all the standing orders on your account.
3. Amend the standing order
Select the standing order you want to amend, and you'll have the option to edit or cancel it. 
4. Confirm
Follow the on-screen instructions to confirm the change.
Amend with online banking 
1. Log on
Log on to online banking, then select 'Standing orders and future payments' from the quick links section.
2. Select your account
Choose the account the standing order is set up on.
3. Find the standing order
Find the standing order you want to amend, then select the 'more information' icon.
4. Change amount
Select ‘Edit amount’ and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the change.
How to cancel a standing order 
If you want to cancel a standing order, you need to do it at least 1 working day before your next payment is due.
Cancel with mobile banking 
1. Log on
Log on to the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
2. Go to 'Manage bills'
Go to your account details page and select 'Manage bills'.
3. Choose your standing order
You'll be able to see all the standing orders and Direct Debits on your account. Tap the one you want to cancel.
4. Confirm
Follow the onscreen instructions to complete the cancellation. 
Cancel with online banking 
If you want to cancel a standing order, you need to do it at least 1 working day before your next payment is due.
1. Log on
Log on to online banking, then select 'Standing orders and future payments' from the quick links section.
2. Select your account
Choose the account the standing order is set up on.
3. Find the standing order
Find the standing order you want to cancel, then select the 'more information' icon.
4. Delete standing order
Select ‘Delete’, then follow the onscreen instructions.
Log on to manage your standing order 
Set up, amend or cancel your standing order online.
Log on to online banking Log on to online banking This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
Frequently asked questions 
What's the difference between a standing order and a Direct Debit? 
Direct Debits are usually arranged with a company and give them permission to automatically take payment for a regular fee or bill.
A standing order is set up by the account holder, who also has the power to amend the amount. They can be used to make regular payments to companies, friends and family, or even into one of your own accounts. 
Explore more 
Direct Debit support
How to set up, amend or cancel a Direct Debit.
Making payments
Find out how to send \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/how-to-set-up-standing-order/
########Top of main content 
What is sustainable investing? 
Sustainable investing refers to types of investments that aim to generate long-term financial returns while advancing sustainable outcomes. 
Here we look at: 
Types of sustainable investing 
Is sustainable investing right for you?
ESG and sustainable investing at HSBC
How you can invest sustainably with HSBC
Types of sustainable investing 
There are many different approaches to investing sustainably. Examples include:
Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) investing 
Ethical investing 
Impact investing 
Socially responsible investing (SRI) 
Values-based investing 
Conscious investing 
Green investing 
There are differences between these approaches and their objectives. 
Before you invest, take time to understand how an ESG and sustainable investment is measured and whether it aligns with your objectives and financial goals.
There's currently no standard definition of 'ESG and sustainable investing' approved by regulators across the industry in the UK. Because other providers may define it differently to the way we do, you may find it hard to compare investments on a like-for-like basis.
Is sustainable investing right for you? 
Some investors put their money into sustainable investments to help them meet their financial objectives. 
Environmental, social, and governmental (ESG) issues can impact share prices – both positively and negatively. Taking these factors into account when investing could increase the resilience of your investments.
However, please note:
The benchmarks for ESG and sustainable investments may be different from those of regular investments 
An ESG and sustainable portfolio may produce different returns to those that don’t consider these factors 
There’s no guarantee investing in an ESG and sustainable portfolio will match your personal ESG and sustainability ambition 
The value of any investment can go up and down, and you may not get back what you invest. All investments should be seen as a medium to long-term commitment, meaning you should be prepared to invest for at least 5 years.
ESG and sustainable investing at HSBC 
Our fund managers, HSBC Global Asset Management (UK) Limited, assess the sustainability of the companies they invest in by scoring them against 3 sets of criteria: environmental, social, and governance factors (known as 'ESG').
HSBC's ESG framework 
ESG issue Example Factors include: 
Environmental	What impact does the company have on the environment?	
Climate change
Air and water pollution
Waste management
Energy efficiency
Water shortage
	
Social	How is the company supporting its employees, clients and communities?	
Human rights
Consumer privacy
Gender equality
Data security
Health and safety
	
Governance	How is the company governed or managed?	
Board structure
Company ownership
Financial reporting
Business ethics and culture
Executive remuneration
	
HSBC's ESG framework 
ESG issue Environmental Environmental	
Example What impact does the company have on the environment? What impact does the company have on the environment?	
Factors include: 
Climate change
Air and water pollution
Waste management
Energy efficiency
Water shortage
Climate change
Air and water pollution
Waste management
Energy efficiency
Water shortage
	
	
ESG issue Social Social	
Example How is the company supporting its employees, clients and communities? How is the company supporting its employees, clients and communities?	
Factors include: 
Human rights
Consumer privacy
Gender equality
Data security
Health and safety
Human rights
Consumer privacy
Gender equality
Data security
Health and safety
	
	
ESG issue Governance Governance	
Example How is the company governed or managed? How is the company governed or managed?	
Factors include: 
Board structure
Company ownership
Financial reporting
Business ethics and culture
Executive remuneration
Board structure
Company ownership
Financial reporting
Business ethics and culture
Executive remuneration
	
ESG and sustainability characteristics are one of many considerations for our fund managers when deciding whether to invest in a fund. They also consider the investment’s expected financial performance and the current economic environment.
Today, we finance a number of industries that significantly contribute to greenhouse gas emissions. We have a strategy to help our customers to reduce their emissions and to reduce our own. For more information visit www.hsbc.com/sustainability www.hsbc.com/sustainability This link will open in a new window. 
How you can invest sustainably with HSBC 
Choose a ready-made sustainable portfolio 
Our range of sustainable investment portfolios contain a mix of global investments. 
Each portfolio has a different level of risk and potential reward and is managed on your behalf by our investment experts. Just choose your preferred level of risk, and we’ll take care of the rest.
HSBC Global Asset Management uses internal research and data from third parties to ensure at least 70% of the net asset value of the portfolios are invested across assets they consider to be sustainable. However, they can't certify third-party ESG measurement criteria themselves. The portfolios also contain some assets they don't define as sustainable. 
You can see the ESG scores of each portfolio as well as their carbon footprint in the portfolio factsheet PDF.
Build your own portfolio 
Want to make your own investment decisions? Our online fund platform (Global Investment Centre) offers other funds with different types of sustainable strategies – from HSBC and other leading fund managers.
Take all the time you need to research what’s there before deciding on the right approach for you.
To invest with us, you need to have an HSBC current account or savings account. Eligibility criteria and charges apply.
This article was last updated: 13/02/2024, 09:10
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about investing 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
e\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/what-is-sustainable-investing/
########Top of main content 
Dispute a transaction 
Following up on a dispute? We're currently working through a large number of claims and will get back to you as soon as possible. Please only call if it’s urgent.
I recognise a transaction but want to dispute it 
I don't recognise a transaction 
If you recognise a transaction but want to dispute it, you'll find everything you need to know here. 
We’re dealing with far more queries than usual at the moment so it may take our team longer to respond. Sorry for any inconvenience and thank you for your patience.
We may send you a text message to update you on the progress of your dispute, so please make sure we have the correct mobile phone number for you. We'll never ask you to click on a link or respond to a text we've sent you about your dispute.
Things to check 
Have you contacted the retailer?
If you can identify the business, company or person behind the charge, approach them first. This will give them the chance to resolve the dispute for you. In many cases the retailer can resolve your issue much faster than we can. However, if your attempts have been unsuccessful, please keep a note of any contact (or attempted contact) you made, and what happened. You will need to give us these details to help your claim.
Has the money left your account?
In order for us to help, most transactions have to be fully processed and no longer pending. Any pending transactions will show in the mobile app under ‘pending’ at the top of your transactions screen. We can raise disputes for unrecognised, duplicated or pending transactions that are a different amount to what you agreed to.
When did the transaction take place?
We can help investigate transactions that took place in the last 120 days. In some cases, we can look into older transactions.
How to dispute a transaction 
If you have a Global Money transaction that you wish to dispute, contact us through Chat in the app.
If you wish to dispute another type of transaction, our Disputes Help Tool will guide you through the next steps. 
If you’ve contacted or attempted to contact the retailer and have been unable to resolve the issue, our Disputes Help Tool will guide you through the next steps. 
Get started Get started This link will open in a new window 
Frequently Asked Questions
What are your rights on making a claim? 
Debit and credit card 
Chargebacks
A chargeback is a way for HSBC to try and recover your money in the event something goes wrong.
There is some useful information below that might help you solve the problem quickly and indicates what information you will need to have ready when you contact us.
Credit card only 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act
In some cases, you may have protection under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. This will apply where the transaction was made wholly or in part on a HSBC credit card and your dispute relates to a purchase of over £100 and under £30,000.
Section 75 provides protection for either of the following:
a breach of contract (eg non-receipt of goods/services or goods that don’t match the description of what you ordered)
misrepresentation (eg the retailer made false promises to get you to purchase their goods or service)
Find out more about Section 75.
If your dispute is unsuccessful we will automatically review for a Section 75 claim and may be in contact again if we need any further information. 
What happens once a dispute is raised? 
In most cases you’ll need to try to solve the problem by contacting the retailer first. However, if you’ve not been able to do so and have raised a dispute with us, this is what happens next:
80% of cases are resolved within 30 days of you raising your dispute, but this could change depending on the complexity.
We may contact you if we need to know more about your dispute. If not, you'll receive a text message when our team has started the review. Sometimes we'll contact the retailer to find out more. We'll do this as fast as we can, but industry rules mean they have up to 45 days to respond to our request. In such cases it will take up to 90 days to be resolved.
We may need to ask you for some more information based on the retailer's response. This could include:
evidence of your attempts to cancel the transaction or return the goods
a receipt or invoice
the retailer's terms and conditions
evidence of the retailer’s rejection of your dispute
We’re getting a lot of queries at the moment, so your dispute may take longer to resolve, but we’re working hard to try to keep within our normal timescales.
Will credit card purchases outside the UK still be protected? 
If flights, package holidays or events are cancelled it’s important to refer to your contract and follow the supplier’s refund/re-booking terms. You should do this before raising any dispute or Section 75 claim. This will help your claim if you choose to make one.
What does 'misrepresentation' cover in the Goods & Services dispute form? 
You can raise a dispute for misrepresented goods or services in the following situations:
Free trials 
An online transaction where you purchased goods or digital goods for a trial period, introductory offer or one-off purchase, and were charged further amounts without warning. If you were not told that you would incur further costs, for example being entered into a subscription after your trial period, you can raise a dispute.
Timeshares 
A transaction with a timeshare reseller or advertiser, or a transaction that recovers timeshare reseller fees.
Online or telephone purchase of the following goods or services: 
The recovery, consolidation, reduction or amendment of existing financial products or services.
Technical services, technical support or computer software that was sold using inaccurate online advertisements, or that contains malicious software downloads.
Business opportunities in which the retailer suggests that an income will be generated, or recommends that the cardholder purchases additional items (such as better sales lea\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/dispute-transaction/
########Top of main content 
Investment calculator 
GBP 
Use our calculator to see how the value of an investment could change under different market conditions.
Enter how much you’d like to start investing with and how much you can add each month. Then, choose an investment risk level. The calculator will then show you how the value of the investment could change over time, depending on the market performance.
Our investment calculator can help you to:
see the potential value of an investment by the time you stop investing
understand how different market conditions could affect the value of the investment
understand how the value of an investment could change with different levels of risk.
Error 
Set Error Text
Chart
Empty chart
Possible Investment values when you stop monthly contributions 
This shows a range of possible outcomes for the value of your investment. The outcomes are based on 3 different market conditions.
Good market conditions GBP -	
Intermediate market conditions GBP -	
Poor market conditions GBP -	
Good market conditions Intermediate market conditions Poor market conditions 
Possible Investment values when you stop monthly contributions 
This shows a range of possible outcomes for the value of your investment. The outcomes are based on 3 different market conditions.
GBP -	GBP -	GBP -	
Based on the information you've entered, the graph above shows how the value of your investment could change in 3 different market conditions.
The table above shows what the value of your investment could be when you've said you'll stop adding monthly contributions to your investment.
The graph and table above are just illustrations of future performance and therefore are not reliable indicators of actual future performance.
How did we calculate this? Opens in overlay 
Discover ways you can invest 
Loading 
Select currency 
GBP 
GBP 
How many years would you like to invest for? 
There's no fixed term and your money can be accessed at any time. However, you should aim to invest for at least 5 years.
How much would you like to start investing with? 
GBP 
How much money could you invest each month? 
GBP 
Choose your investment risk level 
Very low 
Very low 
Low 
Medium 
High 
Very High 
What do we mean by 'risk level'? Opens in overlay 
Calculate 
Recalculate 
Important information about investing 
Remember, the value of investments, and any income from them, could go down as well as up, and you may not get back what you invest.
This may also happen as a result of exchange rate fluctuations, as some investments have exposure to overseas markets. Investing should be seen as a medium- to long-term proposition, for example at least five years. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
The information on this page doesn't constitute a solicitation of the sale or recommendation of, or advice on any products. You should not act on such information without seeking professional advice. You should also consider whether any products are appropriate in view of your own circumstances, including not only your risk tolerance, but also your financial situation, investment knowledge and/or experience, Investment objectives and preferred investment period.
What do we mean by 'risk level'? 
Very low - you're generally comfortable with achieving a very low level of potential return on your investment coupled with a very low risk of investment loss.
Low - you're generally comfortable with achieving a low level of potential return on your investment coupled with a low level risk of investment loss.
Balanced - you're generally comfortable with achieving a moderate level of potential return on your investment coupled with a moderate risk of investment loss.
High - you're generally comfortable with achieving a high level of potential return on your investment coupled with high risk of investment loss.
Very High - you're generally comfortable with achieving a very high level of potential return on investment coupled with a very high risk of investment loss.
HSBC UK Bank Plc is not responsible for any loss, damage or other consequences of any kind that you may incur or suffer as a result of, arising from or relating to your use of or reliance on the information shown on this page. HSBC UK plc gives no guarantee, representation or warranty as to the accuracy, timeliness or completeness of the information shown.
You might also like
Investment goals
A smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the latest version of the app.
Regular portfolios
The HSBC Global Strategy Portfolios contain a mix of investments that are managed on your behalf. 
Sustainable portfolios
HSBC Global Strategy Sustainable Portfolios aim to be a more sustainable way to invest than our regular portfolios.
New to investing?
We're here to help you start investing from £50.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/investment-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Children's education calculator 
Find out how much you might need to invest to cover the cost of your children's education 
How much will I need to save for my child's education? 
GBP 
Use our calculator to find out how much you may need to save towards your children's education expenses, how long it'll take, and how the value of an investment could change under different market conditions.
We’d all like to give our children the best opportunities in life. Paying for, or contributing towards the cost of their education can be a great way to give them a head start.
This calculator can help you to:
find out how much money you could have by the time your child starts their education
see how the value of your investments may change depending on different market conditions and your risk level
Remember to take into account the total costs of their education when you use the calculator. For example, you could consider their accommodation costs as well as their tuition fees.
Error 
For the purposes of this calculator, your child's current age should be less than the age at which they will require funding.
Chart
Empty chart
How much you'll have when education starts 
This shows a range of possible outcomes for the value of your investment. The outcomes are based on 3 different market conditions.
Good market conditions GBP -	
Intermediate market conditions GBP -	
Poor market conditions GBP -	
How much you'll have left to reach your target 
These values are how much more you'll need to reach the total cost of education fees by the time your child starts their education.
Good market conditions GBP -	
Intermediate market conditions GBP -	
Poor market conditions GBP -	
How much you'll have invested over that time 
These values are the total you will have saved each month for the number of years left until your child starts your education. They don't include estimated investment returns.
Good market conditions -	
Intermediate market conditions -	
Poor market conditions -	
Good market conditions Intermediate market conditions Poor market conditions 
How much you'll have when education starts 
This shows a range of possible outcomes for the value of your investment. The outcomes are based on 3 different market conditions.
GBP -	GBP -	GBP -	
How much you'll have left to reach your target 
These values are how much more you'll need to reach the total cost of education fees by the time your child starts their education.
GBP -	GBP -	GBP -	
How much you'll have invested over that time 
These values are the total you will have saved each month for the number of years left until your child starts your education. They don't include estimated investment returns.
GBP -	GBP -	GBP -	
Based on the information you've entered; the graph above shows how the value of your investment could change in 3 different market conditions.
The table above shows what the value of your investment could be when you've said you'll stop adding monthly contributions to your investment.
The graph and table above are just illustrations of future performance and therefore are not reliable indicators of actual future performance.
How did we calculate this? Opens in overlay 
Discover ways you can invest 
Loading 
Select your currency 
GBP 
GBP 
How old is your child? 
If you have more than one child, you can use the calculator again once you have your first results.
How old will they be when you start paying fees? 
How much will the total cost be per year? 
Tuition fees are only one part of the total costs to consider. Try to take everything into account when planning how to financially support them.
GBP 
How many years will your child be in education? 
How much money have you saved or invested already? 
GBP 
How much could you save each month? 
GBP 
How would you describe your investment risk level? 
Very low 
Very low 
Low 
Balanced 
High 
Very high 
What do we mean by 'risk level'? Opens in overlay 
Calculate 
Re-calculate 
Important information about investing 
Remember, the value of investments, and any income from them, could go down as well as up, and you may not get back what you invest.
This may also happen as a result of exchange rate fluctuations, as some investments have exposure to overseas markets. Investing should be seen as a medium- to long-term proposition, for example at least five years. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
The information on this page doesn't constitute a solicitation of the sale or recommendation of, or advice on any products. You should not act on such information without seeking professional advice. You should also consider whether any products are appropriate in view of your own circumstances, including not only your risk tolerance, but also your financial situation, investment knowledge and/or experience, Investment objectives and preferred investment period.
What do we mean by 'risk level'? 
Very low - you're generally comfortable with achieving a very low level of potential return on your investment coupled with a very low risk of investment loss.
Low - you're generally comfortable with achieving a low level of potential return on your investment coupled with a low level risk of investment loss.
Balanced - you're generally comfortable with achieving a moderate level of potential return on your investment coupled with a moderate risk of investment loss.
High - you're generally comfortable with achieving a high level of potential return on your investment coupled with high risk of investment loss.
Very High - you're generally comfortable with achieving a very high level of potential return on investment coupled with a very high risk of investment loss.
HSBC UK Bank Plc is not responsible for any loss, damage or other consequences of any kind that you may incur or suffer as a result of, arising from or relating to your use of or reliance on the information shown on this page. HSBC UK plc gives no guarantee, representation or warranty as to the accuracy, timeliness or completeness \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/education-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Fraud prevention guide 
Keep your money safe with our essential fraud prevention tips 
Stay alert, stay safe 
We tend to think of fraud as something that happens to other people. In reality, anyone can be a target, so it's important to stay alert. 
There are lots of things we do to protect you, but learning about common scams and the tactics criminals use can help you spot when something's not right. 

Remember, we'll never ask you to:
tell us your card’s 4-digit PIN
share your online banking password or Secure Key code
transfer money anywhere, including to a 'safe' account
send us your card, cheque book or cash
Stop, challenge, protect 
If you're contacted out of the blue by phone, email or text:
stop - taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safe.
challenge - could it be fake? It's ok to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. Only criminals will try to rush or panic you.
protect - check with someone you trust, such as a friend or family member and contact the company directly.
If you think you've been targeted 
Call us straight away on 03457 404 404, or +44 1226 261 010 if you're outside the UK.
If you're a Premier customer, you can call us on: 03457 707 070.
You can also forward any suspicious emails or texts to us at phishing@hsbc.com.
HSBC Fraud and Cyber Awareness app 
The HSBC Fraud and Cyber Awareness app keeps you up to date with current scams, fraud trends and guides to help protect you and your money.
Find out more about the appFind out more about the app Fraud app and how to download.
Scams Leaflet 
Download our fraud and scams leafletDownload our fraud and scams leaflet This link will open in a new window for more information on staying protected. You'll find tips on creating a secure password, details of different types of scams and ways to stay safe online.
Learn about fraud and scams
Latest scam warnings
New scams emerge all the time. Stay in the loop with our frequently updated list.
Common scams
Don't get caught out by a scam. Find out how to spot them and what you can do to avoid them.
How a fraudster might contact you
Find out how criminals typically get in touch, and what you should do if you're targeted.
You might also be interested in
Fraud versus scams
What's the difference between fraud and a scam?
Received a text from HSBC?
If you've received a text and you're not sure if it's genuine, check out our examples of real and fake messages.
Cryptocurrency scams
Read the story of how one HSBC customer fell victim to cryptocurrency investment fraud.
How to improve your banking security
Tips to help you keep your money safe.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/fraud-guide/
########Top of main content 
Received a suspicious text? 
Text scams, or smishing, are when a fraudster sends you a text that pretends to be from someone you trust. Here we break down how criminals are sending ever more sophisticated scam texts, and what you can do to protect yourself. 
We send out overdraft text alerts to help you stay on top of your money. Find out more about overdraft text alerts.
Close this message 
Take me straight to 
Texts we might send you 
Texts a fraudster might send you 
What to do if you receive a suspicious text 
Texts we might send you 
If you've received a text message that looks like it may have come from HSBC, it can sometimes be tricky to tell a scam text from the real thing. 
Here you'll find examples of the kind of texts we might send you and why, to help you figure out if it really did come from us.
Remember, if you're ever in any doubt, don't respond - call us on the normal number on the back of your card.
Fraud alert 
Message example
'This is a fraud alert from HSBC. We need you to verify recent transactions. Shortly you will receive a message from +447537438061 with directions on how to respond. We may decline your card until we have a response. Standard network charges apply.'
Purpose
A fraud alert is used to notify you that we need to verify some transactions, and that you'll shortly receive instructions in a follow-up message.
Guidance
Following this initial message, we'll send instructions on what to do next.
These instructions may come from the same number or +447537438061.
Transaction query 
Message example
'HSBC fraud alert. Possible unauthorised transactions on card ending 1004: 250 GBP. 30-Jan 09:56am. ABCSTORES; 3000 EUR. 30-Jan 09:52am. 123STORES. If you made all transactions reply Y, otherwise reply N.'
Purpose
A transaction query is to alert you that we’ve detected potentially unauthorised transactions within your account.
Guidance
Reply ‘Y’, and we'll allow the transactions to be debited.
Reply ‘N’, and we'll stop the transaction from debiting.
Take care when replying, as an incorrect response may authorise fraudulent transactions to debit your account.
You may also receive notifications within our mobile app.
Request to call 
Message example
'Please urgently call Fraud Prevention on 03456081878 from UK or int +441470697094 24x7 quoting D1. This is not a marketing text. Do NOT reply by SMS.'
Purpose
A request to call text is to alert you that we’ve stopped a potentially fraudulent payment and to request you contact our payment fraud team.
Guidance
Check the payee details carefully.
Call us on the number provided to discuss the payment further.
Suspicious log on 
Message example
'Someone has logged on to your online banking and is trying to make a payment. Genuine organisations won't ask you for online security details, to generate codes or move money; fraudsters will. If you've been asked, STOP. for advice, visit our Fraud Centre in the help section of our website.'
Purpose
A suspicious log on text is to alert you that someone has logged on to your online or mobile banking and is trying to make a payment.

Guidance: 
If you know this was you, there’s nothing else you need to do.
If you're unsure, call us using the number on the back of your debit or credit card.
Payment query 
Message example
'This is a fraud alert from HSBC. To protect our customers, we are carefully monitoring transactions for fraud. Shortly you will receive a message from +447860093059 with direction on how to respond. Please respond by 8pm (GMT) today, or your payment may be cancelled.'
Purpose
A payment query is to alert you that we’ve detected potentially unauthorised payments from your account.
Guidance
We’ll send you a follow-up text with instructions on what to do next.
Push notification reminder 
Message example
'HSBC fraud alert - please log on to our app to verify an attempted transaction. Once logged on, tap the bell icon to access your alerts. To protect you, we may temporarily block your card until you respond'
Purpose
A push notification reminder is to alert you of a possible unauthorised card transaction and to notify you that there's a fraud alert notification pending on our mobile app.
Guidance
Log on to our mobile app.
Tap the bell icon to access your alerts.
Verify the alert / transaction details.
Texts a fraudster might send you 
Scammers often send fake text messages that look like they’ve come from your bank, or another trusted organisation. Their goal is to get you to reply with your personal or financial information.

Typically they’ll:
encourage you to take urgent action
ask you to verify new payees, transactions or devices
look similar to real messages. They may show up in the same thread as genuine messages you’ve received from an organisation
Here are some typical scam messages. If you receive something like this, delete the message and do not respond.
Example 1: A new payment 
Message example
'HSBC: A payment was attempted from a new device. If this was not you, please visit http://security-unverifiedpayee.com/hsbc'
What to look out for
Check the link – this is not a HSBC website address.
Example 2: A new Direct Debit 
Message example
'ID931: Your direct debit RVX FINANCE added successfully. Allow 24 hours to view online. Call HSBC 033004-348-67 if you did not request this.
What to look out for
Beware messages that try to create concern and get you to act with urgency.
Check the number – call us using the number on the back of your credit or debit card.
Example 3: An unexpected delivery 
Message example: 
'We attempted to deliver your package at 19:05 on Thursday 20th July 2023 but no one was available. Your parcel was returned to our depot. Pay to reschedule you redelivery by pressing here http//:bit.ly/2jh.1nuk.'
What to look out for
Are you expecting a parcel?
Does the delivery company usually need a rescheduling fee?
Check with the parcel delivery company directly using their official website.
Example 4: An unexpected card payment 
Message \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/received-a-text/
########Top of main content 
Online ID verification 
You can securely provide your ID and proof of address documents with our online tool in less than 5 minutes. There's no need to go into a branch. You just need a computer with a webcam, or a mobile phone with a camera, and your documents. 
When you can use online ID verification? 
You can use our online tool when applying for a new product, if:
you've received your unique reference by text message or on-screen during your application
you have all of the required documents with you
Existing customers can use the tool, if:
you've received a letter or text from us with your unique reference
you have the required documents and they match the details we hold for you
How it works 
Before you start, make sure you have the required documents with you and your details are up to date.
1. Initial check
Answer a few quick questions about your device and documents to make sure the journey is right for you.
2. Upload a selfie
Take a photo of yourself against a clean background. Follow the instructions on the screen.
3. Upload your ID
Take clear pictures of your ID documents and upload them.
4. Upload proof of address (if requested)
Take a clear picture of your proof of address document and upload it. We don't always ask for this.
Tips for successful document upload 
Make sure the images you take:
are clear - all the text is easy to read
don't have glare or reflections
show the whole page
If your documents are not accepted online, you can take them to your local branch. Please check which documents we can accept in branch, as they can differ.
Get started now Get started now This link will open in a new window 
Frequently Asked Questions 
How do I apply for a MyMoney account for my child? 
You'll need to provide both:
your child's passport
a photo of your child - a selfie style photo from a phone is ideal
The address on your child’s application must match the address we hold for you. If the addresses don't match, you’ll need to take your own and your child’s documents to your local branch so we can update our records.
Unfortunately, we cannot accept birth certificates online.
I'm a student - can I use university documents as proof of address? 
Unfortunately, we can’t accept any university letters online as proof. You'll need to take your documents to your local branch. Please check which documents we can accept in a branch.
My documents have been rejected. What can I do next? 
Bring the correct documents to your local HSBC branch. Please check which documents we can accept in a branch.
Why can't I use my tenancy agreement? 
Unfortunately, we can't accept a tenancy agreement online. We can accept a tenancy agreement, from a known letting agency, if you take it to your local branch. To see which other documents we accept visit What you need for ID check.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/verification/
########Top of main content 
HSBC Safeguard 
Here to protect you today, tomorrow and for the future 
Table of contents 
What is HSBC Safeguard?
What shall I do next?
What is HSBC Safeguard? 
HSBC Safeguard is a series of initiatives that safeguard your hard-earned money and savings from financial crime and fraud. To do this we need to ensure the information we have about you is correct, so we will:
review all our customer accounts to check we have all the details we need
be in touch if we need you to confirm, update or provide new information

How does HSBC Safeguard help me?
In a world that's more connected than ever, there's an even greater need for security. Our global systems are best able to provide you with world-class protection against financial crime when we have your most up-to-date information.
If you need more information:
visit the HSBC Safeguard FAQs
download our HSBC Safeguard brochureHSBC Safeguard brochure This link will open in a new window
What shall I do next? 
For every type of account, you can find what you need to know below. Simply choose your type of account to find out how HSBC Safeguard will affect you.
UK customers 
How will I know if I need to update my account?
If you receive a letter, it will explain the steps you need to take. We'll only ask you to go into a branch if you need to.

I've been asked for identification. Which are suitable?
Your passport or driving licence are best. You can find a full list of ID we accept herehere full list of ID we accept.
What proof of address do you need?
Council and utility bills are the most common proof of address. You'll find a full list of acceptable proof herehere full list of acceptable documents. Remember, your documents will need to be certified copies.
Overseas customers 
As an overseas customer, what shall I do next?
You will have received a letter. We'll follow this up with a phone call to run you through the process.
Which nationality identification will you accept?
We need to see a certified original copy of your passport or national identity card. You can find other accepted ID herehere List of accepted IDs.
What proof of address will you accept?
We will need to see your overseas driving licence, utility bill or a non-HSBC bank statement. You can find a full list of what's acceptable herehere List of acceptable overseas proof of address.
Who can certify my documents?
Your local bank, the UK Embassy or Consulate, or a lawyer. Find out moreFind out more about overseas certification.
Premier customers 
I usually bank through my Relationship Manager. Will they be in touch?
Yes, they will contact you directly. If you don't have a specified Relationship Manager, you will receive a letter that will explain what we need you to do.
What identification do I need to show?
Your passport or driving licence is preferred. Find a full list of accepted ID here.
What proof of address can I give?
Council and utility bills are the most common proof of address. You'll find a full list of those we accept herehere List of acceptable proof of address. Your Relationship Manager will talk you through how to certify your documents.
What to do if you've heard from us 
If you’ve received an email or text message from HSBC Safeguard, you can use online banking to confirm your details or you can call us.
Online banking 
If you’re registered for online banking, use the button below to get started.
Log on to online banking Log on to online banking to confirm your details This link will open in a new window 
Call us 
If you’re not registered for online banking, our customer services team will be happy to help. They’ll tell you if you need to give any information and explain what you need to do next.
HSBC customers call 03457 404 404
HSBC Premier customers call 03457 70 70 70
From outside the UK: +44 1226 260 260
Lines are open 24 hours a day.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/hsbc-safeguard/
########Top of main content 
Secure Key help 
How to log on with your physical or Digital Secure Key 
What is a Secure Key? 
We take your online safety very seriously. If you use online or mobile banking, our physical or Digital Secure Key gives you added protection against fraud. The Secure Key generates a temporary code so only you can access your accounts.
Fraud alert: Never give out your security codes to anyone. Criminals pretend to be people you trust like a company you pay bills to, HSBC or even the police. To find out more, visit our Security centre.
Get help with your Secure Key 
Having any trouble with your Secure Key or logging on? This tool will give you all the information you need.
Digital banking help tool Digital banking help tool This link will open in a new window 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
Download the app 
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
Frequently Asked Questions
How do I set up a Digital Secure Key for the first time? 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
How do I set up a Digital Secure Key on a new device? 
You can set up app access on up to 3 different devices. To find out how, go to our digital banking help tool and select ‘How do I activate my new Secure Key’.

Once you’re set up on your new device, you can remove your old one by going to 'Manage devices'. To do this, go to the Profile section of the app and select 'Security and generate security code'. If you're using online banking, select 'Account services' in the top menu to find 'Manage devices'.
How do I switch from a Physical Secure Key (PSK) to a Digital Secure Key (DSK) ? 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
How do I reset my log on details? 
It depends on which details you've locked out or forgotten. Just go to our digital banking help tooldigital banking help tool This link will open in a new window, select the option you need and follow the steps. Alternatively, select 'Log on' above and enter your username, or do the same in the app. You should see directions on what to do next.
How do I replace a Secure Key if it's lost, stolen, damaged or has a low battery? 
If your Secure Key is lost or stolen or you can't use it, call 03456 002 290 so we can deactivate it. You can then either upgrade to a Digital Secure Key or order a replacement.
If you can still use your Secure Key, but would like to replace it, you can do either of the following:
upgrade to a Digital Secure Key by downloading the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app
order a new physical one using Chat
Just log on to online banking and select 'Chat'.
What does the error message on my Secure Key mean? 
To find out what's happening, go to our digital banking help tooldigital banking help tool This link will open in a new window. Then select 'Physical Secure Key error messages' and confirm which error message you’re seeing.
What options do you have for customers with accessibility requirements? 
The Digital Secure Key is compatible with normal VoiceOver (iOS) or TalkBack (Android) features. If you can't use the Digital Secure Key, and you'd like to discuss other Secure Key options, contact us on 0345 600 2290.
My question isn't answered here. Do you have any more support? 
Yes. We have our digital banking help tooldigital banking help tool This link will open in a new window, which has visual guides on how to sort out any Secure Key or log on issues. If you can't find your answer there, select 'Need help?' on the right of this screen.
How do I set up and activate a Physical Secure Key? 
To set up or activate a Physical Secure Key (PSK), go to our Digital Banking Help ToolDigital Banking Help Tool This link will open in a new window, select 'How do I activate my new Secure Key', choose the option you need and follow the steps. Alternatively, select 'Log on' above and enter your username, you should see directions on what to do next.
You might be interested in
Reset your log on details
Get up and running again if you lose any of your details.
Mobile banking - it's in your hands
Send money, view statements and stay secure.
Additional information 
Find out more about the operating systems our app works onoperating systems our app works on This link will open in a new window.
Apple and the Apple Logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.
Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of Google LLC. This webpage is not endorsed by or affiliated with Google in any way.
Back to top Back to top Back to start of page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new wind\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/secure-key/
########Top of main content 
Mobile cheque deposit 
You can pay in cheques using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app 
Benefits of mobile cheque deposit
Pay cheques into your eligible HSBC account 
Pay in one or more cheques up to a limit of £2,000 per day 
Deposit cheques at a time that suits you 
Learn more about our app here 
Download the app 
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
How to deposit a cheque using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking App
1. Log in to the app
Select 'Pay & Transfer' followed by selecting 'Deposit a cheque'
2. Account & Value
Select the account where you wish to deposit your cheque and enter the cheque value.
3. Scan
Under 'cheque images' select the front and back of the cheque icons to capture both sides of the cheque. Press continue and review the details, then press 'deposit now'
4. Complete
Retain the cheque until the money is added to your account which can be viewed in your account transactions once cleared.
*Cheques deposited before 10pm on a working day will be available by 11:59pm the next working day.
Find out more about the operating systems our app works onoperating systems our app works on This link will open in a new window.
Apple and the Apple Logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.
Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of Google LLC. This webpage is not endorsed by or affiliated with Google in any way.
Frequently Asked Questions
How much can I deposit? 
You can pay in one or more cheques up to a limit of £2,000 per day.
When will the money be in my account? 
The cheque imaging process is quicker than the traditional system. Cheques deposited before 10pm on a working day will be available by 11:59pm the next working day, provided the cheque has not bounced. You can see when money is added to your account by using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
How will I know if there is a problem? 
If there are any problems with your cheque deposit, we’ll contact you using the most recent postal address you’ve given us. Please retain the cheque until the money is available in your account.
How do I get the best image of the cheque? 
To scan and submit a legible image you must:
Place the cheque flat on a dark, unreflective background/surface.
Enable the cheque deposit feature on your device and hover over the cheque with it.
Ensure the image is in focus and the whole cheque is visible inside the red box on the screen.
The image will be captured automatically. 
Are there charges for using mobile cheque deposit? 
We don’t charge for using mobile cheque deposit. However, data rate charges may apply which might be charged by the mobile network provider.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/cheque-deposit/
########Top of main content 
Doing your banking from home 
Mobile banking guides
Manage regular payments
Make a payment to a company
Setting up the app for the first time
Setting up the app on a new device
Manage your money
View your statements
Manage your investments
Deposit a cheque in the app
Freeze / Unfreeze Card
Create standing order
Generate transaction code
Setting up a new payment
Mobile banking video guides 
Freezing lost or stolen cards 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript Freezing lost or stolen cards using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app This link will open in a new window 
Find out more about freezing or unfreezing your card
Setting up a new payment 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript Setting up a new payment using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app This link will open in a new window 
Find out more about making payments online and on the app
Locked out? 
If you're locked out of mobile or online banking or have forgotten your log on details, we can help.
Our digital banking help tool will get you back online quickly and easily.
Digital banking help tool Digital banking help tool This link will open in a new window 
Register for Digital banking 
Registering for digital banking is easy. If you’re setting up for yourself, or helping someone else to do it, we have a step-by-step guide to online and mobile banking that also shows some of the key things you can do.
Register today 
Discover our key features
Balances and Moving Money 
Balances and Moving Money 
Balances and moving money
Mobile app
Online banking
View balances & recent transactions
	Yes	Yes	
Move money between your own HSBC accounts
	Yes	Yes	
Move money to friends & family within the UK
	Yes	Yes	
Move money to a company (e.g. to pay a bill)
	Yes	Yes	
Move money using Paym
	Yes	No	
Global Transfers
	Yes	Yes	
International Payments	Yes	Yes	
Deposit a cheque
	Yes	No	
Query a transaction 	Yes	No	
Balance after bills	Yes	No	
Transaction notifications	Yes	No	
Spending insights	Yes 	No 	
Monthly budgets	Yes 	No 	
Balances and Moving Money 
Balances and moving money
View balances & recent transactions
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Balances and moving money
Move money between your own HSBC accounts
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Balances and moving money
Move money to friends & family within the UK
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Balances and moving money
Move money to a company (e.g. to pay a bill)
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Balances and moving money
Move money using Paym
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
No	
	
Balances and moving money
Global Transfers
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Balances and moving money
International Payments	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Balances and moving money
Deposit a cheque
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
No	
	
Balances and moving money
Query a transaction 	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
No	
	
Balances and moving money
Balance after bills	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
No	
	
Balances and moving money
Transaction notifications	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
No	
	
Balances and moving money
Spending insights	
Mobile app
Yes 	
Online banking
No 	
	
Balances and moving money
Monthly budgets	
Mobile app
Yes 	
Online banking
No 	
Standing orders and Direct Debits 
Standing orders and Direct Debits 
Standing orders and Direct Debits
Mobile app
Online banking
View your standing orders and Direct Debits
	Yes	Yes	
Set-up a new standing order	Yes	Yes	
Cancel a Direct Debit	Yes	Yes	
Cancel a standing order	Yes	Yes	
Amend a standing order	Yes 	Yes	
Manage your subscriptions	Yes	No	
Standing orders and Direct Debits 
Standing orders and Direct Debits
View your standing orders and Direct Debits
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Standing orders and Direct Debits
Set-up a new standing order	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Standing orders and Direct Debits
Cancel a Direct Debit	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Standing orders and Direct Debits
Cancel a standing order	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Standing orders and Direct Debits
Amend a standing order	
Mobile app
Yes 	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Standing orders and Direct Debits
Manage your subscriptions	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
No	
Card servicing 
Card servicing 
Card servicing
Mobile app
Online banking
Report your card as lost or stolen
	Yes	Yes	
Replace a damaged card
	Yes	Yes	
Freeze or unfreeze your card	Yes	Yes	
Place a gambling restriction on your debit card
	Yes	No	
Activate your card	Yes	Yes	
Order a PIN reminder
	No	Yes	
View card PIN	Yes 	No 	
Card servicing 
Card servicing
Report your card as lost or stolen
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Card servicing
Replace a damaged card
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Card servicing
Freeze or unfreeze your card	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Card servicing
Place a gambling restriction on your debit card
	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
No	
	
Card servicing
Activate your card	
Mobile app
Yes	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Card servicing
Order a PIN reminder
	
Mobile app
No	
Online banking
Yes	
	
Card servicing
View card PIN	
Mobile app
Yes 	
Online banking
No 	
Personal details 
Personal details 
Personal details
Mobile app
Online banking
Change your address	Y\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/banking-at-home/
########Top of main content 
Mobile money management 
Manage your money more easily with our mobile app 
Stay on top of your finances 
The smart money tools in our app help you keep an eye on your spending and stay on top of your finances. Not only can they help you keep within your budget, they may also help you grow your money and achieve your financial goals.
What's the plan when it comes to your finances? 
Our 'Plan' tab in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app has a range of useful tools to help you manage your money. These include Spending insights, Monthly budgets and the Financial fitness tool, with more to follow. To start using it, just tap ‘Plan’ and choose the option you’re interested in.
To use this new feature, make sure you're using the latest version of the app. You'll also need an operating system that supports our app.
Spending insights 
You can now see your monthly spending broken down into different categories, giving you a better insight into your spending. You’ll also see personalised monthly insights on HSBC current accounts and credit cards, such as your ‘top category’ and ‘top spend’, and be able to compare your spending month on month. 
Monthly budgets 
Create and track a budget on HSBC current accounts and credit cards for that month's spending category to help you take control of your money. Once a budget is set up, a helpful visual offers easy tracking of your spending against your set budget. This helps you to understand how you're spending your money. You’ll also be able to see a percentage of your spend vs your set budget. 
Investment goals 
Discover a smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the latest version of the app. Select the ‘Plan’ tab at the bottom of your home screen. Then choose ‘Investment goals’. Remember, investing has its ups and downs, so you could get back less than you invest. Eligibility criteria and fees apply. 
Financial fitness 
Access a range of helpful tools and guides to help you achieve your goals, using the financial fitness materials in our app. This includes the ability to check your financial fitness score, book an appointment with one of our financial fitness trainers or just browse relevant articles. 
Other mobile features to help you manage your money better 
Transaction notifications 
We’ll send you push notifications – useful alerts that help you quickly keep track of payments, spending, and any suspicious activity.
You’ll also receive alerts when your card is declined, as well as an explanation and next steps.
Log on and go to to your profile. Select ‘Communication preferences’, then ‘Push notifications’. You’ll be able to choose what payment notifications you receive for your account.
Manage bills on the go 
Now you can manage your monthly payments in our app. You can view, set up and delete your standing orders, and view or delete any Direct Debits. 
Just log on, select your account, then go to 'Manage bills'. From there, you can access all your standing orders, Direct Debits and subscriptions. To manage them, simply select each payment.
Balance After Bills 	
Get help budgeting from one payday to the next. With Balance After Bills, you can see how much you could have left for the month ahead, once scheduled bills (standing orders and Direct Debits) are taken into account.
Simply log on, choose the relevant current account and select 'Balance After Bills‘. You can then check your balance and scheduled bills.
	
Frequently asked questions 
How can I start using Spending insights? 
To start using Spending insights in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, tap on the plan tab and then ‘Find out more’ in the Spending insights feature. Check the toggle on the Spending insights feature is switched on, and agree to share your transaction information. This information is securely shared with HSBC’s partner company in a way that makes it anonymous. Choose which of the current accounts and credit cards you want to keep track of.
You can then see your personalised spend overview dashboard. The dashboard will show your total monthly spending and previous spending (up to previous 12 months of data). You can drill down to individual transaction categories and merchants. And also see extra spending insights, such as your ‘Top spend’ and ‘Top category’ for the current month within the plan tab.
You need to be over 18 and have an HSBC UK current account or HSBC UK credit card to use the spending insights feature.
How is Spending insights data categorised? 
There are 19 Spending insights categories in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app: 
Business services
Education
Entertainment
Travel
Health and fitness
Government and taxes
Personal and professional services
Bills
Shopping
Financial services
Eating out
Groceries
Charity and community
Transport
House and garden
General
Transfers
Payments
Cash & Forex
Occasionally some transactions may not be eligible for categorisation. Spending insights only includes your posted transactions, and doesn’t include pending transactions. It generally takes a couple of days before a transaction is posted.
You can re-categorise a transaction by tapping on it. The transaction details will then load, including details of the current category and option to change the category. You should select the change category button where you can then re-categorise to one of the other 18 category options. At the moment, you can't create your own categories or ‘tags’.
How can I create a monthly budget? 
Tap on 'Plan' in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app and then ‘View account’ on the monthly budgets feature. You can then set up monthly budgets, as long as you must have the spending insights feature turned on. If you don't have this turned on, you'll be redirected to the spending insights settings to set it up.
You’ll need to select the category you'd like to budget for and set the monthly amount. A 6-month average spend is shown to help you choose a suitable budget. Once the budget is created, the budget details (amount, how much you've use\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/money-management/
########Top of main content 
Confirming online card payments 
New measures to help keep you safe from fraud 
Online card payment declined? It may be because the retailer didn't request security checks to help prevent fraud. This can happen even if there are no issues with your account or card. Find out moreFind out more about declined payments
When you use your credit or debit card to pay for an online purchase, we may ask you to enter a one-time passcode or log on to the app to confirm your payment.
What's new? 
From now on, you may be asked to confirm online card payments more often. We’ve also introduced new ways to do this.
The options available for you to confirm your payments are:
HSBC UK Mobile Banking app: simply log on to our secure app using your Digital Secure Key and confirm your payment in just a few taps. If you don't already have it, you can discover our app.
Text message: we’ll send a code to your mobile phone for you to enter and check. Please make sure we have your correct mobile number. You can update it by logging on to online bankingonline banking This link will open in a new window.
There's now also an extra security check when you choose to confirm payments using a one-time passcode sent by text message. We’ll ask you to enter your email address to help us check it's you making the payment and to reduce the risk of fraud. Find out moreFind out more about Behavioural biometrics
Card reader: if you can't verify using the app or SMS options, we’ve introduced a hand-held card reader to generate codes to confirm payments.
Don’t fall victim to a scam. Never share your one-time passcodes with anyone including us. Fraudsters pretend to be people you trust like a company you pay bills to, HSBC UK, or even the police.
Make sure you're ready by following these steps 
1. Download and start using the app 
Already use our mobile banking app? 
To confirm your online card payments, you'll need a Digital Secure Key to log on. To check if you have one, just open your app. If you see an option for a Digital Secure Key password or PIN, you're ready to go.
If you currently use a physical Secure Key, switching is easy. Just enter your username on the app and then select 'Activate Digital Secure Key' and follow the steps.
Use online banking but not mobile banking? 
Simply download the app from the App Store or Google Play on your phone or tablet, accept the terms and conditions, then enter your username and select 'Continue'.
As part of the process, you’ll set up a Digital Secure Key. This will replace your physical Secure Key.
Find out more about the operating systems our app works on.
App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. 
Google Play is a trademark of Google LLC. This webpage is not endorsed by or affiliated with Google in any way.
Don't use mobile or online banking yet? 
You can find all the information you need to get started at register for mobile and online banking.
Don't want to use the mobile banking app? 
No problem, but you'll need to make sure that we have an up-to-date mobile phone number for you.
If you can't verify using either the app or SMS options, please see the card reader section below.
2. Make sure we have your correct mobile number 
Review your mobile number in the mobile app 
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, select the profile icon and ‘Update your personal details’.
Review your mobile number in online banking 
Simply log on to online bankinglog on to online banking This link will open in a new window and select ‘Contact details’ to check and update your mobile number.
Update your mobile number without online banking 
Our teams are extremely busy at the moment, so please only call or visit a branch if you can’t use online banking to check your details.
To find your nearest branch, see our branch finder.
To speak to us over the phone, call 03457 404 404.
We’re here to help 8:00 to 20:00 every day.
Don't want to give us your mobile number? 
If you’d rather not give us your mobile number, please download and use the app.
If you can't verify using either the app or SMS options, please see the card reader section below.
Card reader 
If you can't confirm your payments using the app or SMS options, we’ve introduced a card reader option.
A card reader is a small, hand-held device that generates one-time codes to confirm online card payments. To use it, you'll need to insert your debit or credit card into the device. We'll ask you to enter your card PIN followed by an authentication code, shown on your purchase screen.
The card reader will generate an 8-digit code for you to enter on the purchase screen to confirm the transaction.
To request one, see our card reader page. In the meantime, if you're ever asked to confirm an online card payment, and you can't use either the app or SMS methods, call us to discuss other options to complete your purchase.
How do I confirm a payment?
HSBC UK Mobile Banking app
When asked to confirm an online payment, choose the mobile banking app option.
Log on to your HSBC UK Mobile Banking app and review the payment details. Confirm if you're happy to proceed.
Return to your browser and select 'Payment confirmed on mobile app'.
SMS
When asked to confirm an online payment, choose the SMS option.
Wait for a text to arrive with a one-time passcode. It will be sent to the mobile number we hold for you.
Enter the passcode you receive in the verification screen of the payment.
Follow the instructions to complete the payment.
We'll also ask you to enter your email address to help us check it is you making the payment and to reduce the risk of fraud. Find out moreFind out more about Behavioural biometrics
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
Audio\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/confirming-online-card-purchases/
########Top of main content 
Lost, stolen or damaged cards 
What to do if you've lost your card or it's not working 
Tell us straight away if your card has been lost or stolen 
Temporarily block your card with our Mobile App or online banking. If you still can't find it, we'll cancel it straight away and send you a new one. You’ll get a new card by post within 7 working days or, if you're outside the UK, within 10 working days. If it does turn up, you can quickly unblock it and start using it again.
Take me straight to 
Freeze or unfreeze your card 
Report a lost or stolen card 
Replace a damaged card 
Add replacement credit card to Apple Pay 
Replace an expired card and more help 
Freeze or unfreeze your card 
If you can’t find your card but you’re not sure it’s been lost or stolen, you can put a temporary block on it.
You can easily unblock it if it turns up. If you still can't find it, tell us if you think it’s been lost or stolen. You can do this 24 hours a day using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app or by logging on to online banking.
Mobile Banking app 
Log on to your mobile app and follow these steps.
1. Select account
Select the account the card belongs to.
2. Manage cards
Select 'View more' and then 'Manage cards'.
3. Freeze or unfreeze card
Select the slider to freeze or unfreeze the card. The freeze stays in place until you remove it.
Online banking 
Log on to online banking and follow these steps.
1. Select account
Choose the account the card belongs to and then select 'Manage'.
2. Block or unblock card
Choose 'Block or unblock card' from the menu.
3. Select card
Find the card you wish to block or unblock and select 'Block this card' or 'Unblock this card'.
4. Confirm
Confirm the card you wish to block or unblock. All card transactions are blocked until you choose to remove it.
Log on to block your card Log on to block your card This link will open in a new window 
Report a lost or stolen card 
Tell us if your card is lost or has been stolen and we’ll send you a new one.
Mobile Banking app 
Log on to your mobile app and follow these steps.
1. Select account
Select the account the card belongs to.
2. Manage cards
Select 'View more' and then 'Manage cards'.
3. Report card lost or stolen
Select 'Report a card issue' and follow the instructions to provide additional information.
4. Confirm
Review the details and confirm the address we hold for you is correct. Select 'confirm' and your new card will be issued.
Online banking 
Log on to online banking and follow these steps.
1. Select account
Choose the account the card belongs to and then select 'Manage'.
2. Report card lost or stolen
Select 'Report a lost or stolen card' from the menu and then choose the cards to be reported.
3. Provide information
Follow the on-screen instructions and provide information about what happened to your card.
4. Confirm
Review the details and confirm the address we hold for you is correct. Select 'confirm' and your new card will be issued.
Report a lost or stolen card Report a lost or stolen card This link will open in a new window 
Next steps 
Once you've told us that your card has been lost or stolen, we'll cancel it straight away. We'll send you a new one in the post within 7 working days if you're in the UK, or 10 working days if you're outside the UK.
Find out how to add your replacement card to your apple or google pay here
Replace a damaged card 
If your debit or credit card is damaged, you can easily ask for a replacement.
Mobile Banking app 
Log on to your mobile app and follow these steps.
1. Select account
Select the account the card belongs to.
2. Manage cards
Select 'View more' and then 'Manage cards'.
3. Report damaged card
Select 'Report lost, stolen or damaged card'. Choose the reason for replacement from the dropdown and then 'Continue'.
4. Confirm
Review the details and confirm the address we hold for you is correct. Select 'confirm' and your new card will be issued.
Online banking 
Log on to online banking and follow these steps.
1. Select account
Choose the account the card belongs to and then select 'Manage'.
2. Replace damaged card
From the menu, select 'Replace a damaged card'.
3. Choose card
Choose the card that needs to be replaced and select 'Continue'.
4. Confirm
Review the details and confirm the address we hold for you is correct. Select 'confirm' and your new card will be issued.
Replace damaged card now Replace damaged card now This link will open in a new window 
Next steps 
Once you've told us that your card has been lost or stolen, we'll cancel it straight away. We'll send you a new one in the post within 7 working days if you're in the UK, or 10 working days if you're outside the UK.
Find out how to add your replacement card to your apple or google pay here
Add replacement credit card to Apple Pay or Google Pay 
You can add replacement credit cards to Apple Pay or Google Pay directly from the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You can do this before you’ve received and activated your new card.
Mobile banking app - credit cards only 
1. Log on
Log on to our app with your Digital Secure Key.
2. Select account
Select the account the credit card belongs to.
3. Add to Apple Wallet or Google Pay
Select ‘Add to Apple Wallet’ or ‘Add to Google Pay'.
4. Follow the on-screen instructions
Follow the on-screen instructions until your card is added and you're back on the 'Account details' screen. You can now pay for things with Apple Pay or Google Pay immediately. Remember to activate your new card when you receive it.
	
	
Replace an expired card and more help 
Expired cards 
Before your card expires, we’ll automatically send you a replacement.
However, if yours has expired and you haven’t received a new card, please call the emergency line.
Emergency line 
If you're not registered for mobile or online banking, you’ll need to phone our emergency line to report your card lost or stolen.
Call 0800 085 2401 from the UK or +44 1442 422929 if you're outside the UK.
Lines are open 24 hours a day, 7 day\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/lost-or-stolen/
########Top of main content 
Credit card repayment options 
You can find all the options on how to pay back your HSBC Credit Card here.
One-off payments
Mobile banking 
Follow the below instructions on how to make a one-off payment through the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Once logged on, select 'Pay & Transfer'.
Choose 'Make a payment or transfer' and select the account you'd like to pay from.
Under ‘My accounts’, choose the credit card you’d like to pay off.
Enter the payment amount and confirm if you want to make the payment now or at a later date.
Tap ‘Continue’ and confirm the payment.
Your money is normally credited to your account immediately, subject to our standard checks. Your credit card balance will be updated the next working day. This money cannot be recalled.
Online banking 
Follow the below instructions on how to make a one-off payment through online banking. 
Once logged in, select ‘Move money’.
Select ‘Using our company look-up’.
Type HSBC in the company name field. You’ll see a list of HSBC credit cards.
Select the relevant card for your payment.
Follow the instructions on the screen to complete your payment.
Telephone banking 
To make a one-off payment through phone banking please view your contact options on our phone banking page.
Branch banking 
Visit your local branch to make a payment to your credit card.
Find your branch
Payments from a non HSBC account 
Your Bank will already have our account details. You will normally use the 'Pay Company' option, or something similar. Please refer to the back of your Credit Card bill to check our details.
Your Bank will help you if you're not sure how to send the payment.
Direct Debit 
Set-up or amend 
How to set up or amend a Direct Debit
Choose or change the amount you pay off your HSBC Credit Card each month, change which account you pay from, or which payment type you use.
Set up/amend a Direct Debit from your HSBC account:
Complete and submit the Direct Debit eFormDirect Debit eForm This link will open in a new window
Set up a Direct Debit from your non-HSBC account:
Complete, sign and submit our electronic Direct Debit Mandateelectronic Direct Debit Mandate This link will open in a new window.
Alternatively, you can print off and complete the Direct Debit mandateDirect Debit mandate This link will open in a new window and hand it into your nearest HSBC Branch or post to:
Customer Service Centre, BX8 2HB
What happens next?
Direct Debits can now take up to 4 to 6 weeks to process. After the Direct Debit has been processed, it will be effective from the date of your next statement.
If you are a HSBC Bank Account, Basic Bank Account, Advance Account or Student Account customer please call us on: 03457 40 44 04.

HSBC Premier customers please call us on: 03457 70 70 70.

Lines are open from 8:00 to 20:00 every day.
Emergency Line 
If you're not registered for mobile or online banking, you’ll need to phone our emergency line to report your card lost or stolen.

Call 0800 085 2401 from the UK or +44 1442 42 29 29 if you're outside the UK.

Lines are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Please note, you may be charged if you call from outside the UK.
Cancel 
Quickly and easily cancel the automatic monthly payments to your HSBC Credit Card.
If you have the HSBC Mobile Banking app:
Log on to your HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Select the current account that the Direct Debit is set up on.
Select ‘Manage bills’.
From the list of Direct Debits, select the Direct Debit for your HSBC credit card.
Select ‘Cancel Direct Debit’.

If you are registered for online banking:
Log on to Online Banking.
Select the current account that the Direct Debit is set up on.
Select the ‘Manage’ menu.
Select ‘Direct Debits’ from the options provided.
Locate the Direct Debit for your HSBC Credit Card.
Choose to view more information, then select the ‘Cancel’ button.
If you're not registered for mobile or online banking:
Complete and submit the Direct Debit eForm or call us on 03457 404 404 and we’ll be happy to cancel.
What happens next?
If you cancel the Direct Debit via the eForm it will take 24 hours to process. If you cancel a Direct Debit via mobile or online banking this occurs immediately. If your Direct Debit is due in the next three working days it will still be collected.
Frequently Asked Questions 
Can I make payments to my HSBC Credit Card from overseas? 
Yes, please use the following information:
IBAN Number (dependent on country/region of origin):
Europe - GB15MIDL40424699009787
Outside Europe - MIDLGB22
Sort Code: 40 42 46
Account Number: 99009787
Reference: Your 16 digit credit card number
Updating of available credit and interest calculations dependent on international payment processing times in the country/region of origin. Once received payments will be credited within 3 working days.
I have a Direct Debit set up for my HSBC Credit Card, can I make additional one-off payments? 
It depends on the type of Direct Debit you have set up, and when you are looking to make the additional payment.
I have a Direct Debit to collect the minimum amount:
If you choose to make an additional payment before the Direct Debit is collected, then your minimum Direct Debit payment will still be made, unless the payments reduce the balance to zero. In this case, the Direct Debit won’t be claimed, to make sure the account doesn’t go into credit. 
I have a Direct Debit to collect the full amount:
If you make an additional payment before the Direct Debit is collected, then your Direct Debit payment will reduce accordingly, ensuring that overall you only pay the full amount required.
I have a Direct Debit to take a fixed amount:
If you choose to make an additional payment before the Direct Debit is collected, then your fixed Direct Debit payment will still be made, unless the payments reduce the balance to zero. In this case, the Direct Debit won’t be claimed, to make sure the account doesn’t go into credit.

Please note that any additional payment made within 3 working days of \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/credit-card-repayment-options/
########Top of main content 
Report a problem 
My card is missing or stolen 
If your card is lost, stolen or likely to be misused we provide 24-hour assistance. However, you can quickly take full control at home or on the move.
To temporarily block your card through the HSBC mobile app or via online banking, please follow the instructions found on the temporary card block page
If your card has been lost or stolen take action as soon as possible. Follow the instructions on how to report it here
If you are not registered for online banking please phone our emergency line on 0800 085 2401 from the UK or +44 1442 422929 if you are overseas.
Lines are open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Charges may be incurred if calling from overseas.
Log on to report a lost or stolen card Log on to report a lost or stolen card This link will open in a new window 
Still don’t recognise a transaction 
If you think this transaction could be fraud, get in touch with us:
Download the full list (PDF, 66KB) Download the full list (PDF, 66KB) Download 
Still don’t recognise a transaction? Here’s what to do – but please don’t call unless you think there’s been a fraudulent card transaction, payment or authorised payment scam:
For Card transactions, Payments or Scams
Call us 03457 404 404 or if abroad: +44 1226 261 010.
Premier customers call us on: 03457 707 070.
I wish to dispute a transaction 
If there’s a card payment which you recognise but wish to dispute, please don’t call us as our lines are very busy.
Go to our query a transaction page to find out how to raise a dispute.
I received a text message from HSBC ? 
We may text you to check a card transaction is legitimate or to ask you to contact us.
Check our text messages page to see what our regular text messages look like and also see some messages commonly sent by fraudsters.
I got a suspicious email 
Stop. Don't click on any links. Don't open any attachments. Just forward the email to phishing@hsbc.com and we'll investigate it.
My card is damaged 
If your card is damaged, please follow these steps:
Log onLog on This link will open in a new window to online banking
Select the "Replace a damaged card" menu option
For more information, including other options to request a replacement card, see here.
Useful links
What you can do
Using your card
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/report-a-problem/
########Top of main content 
Activate your card 
Activate your new card online, by phone or at a cash machine 
Debit cards delivered after 30 November 2022 are ready to be used, so you won't need to activate them. Just use chip and pin once - then you can go contactless. You'll still need to activate HSBC credit cards before use.
Close 
How to activate your card 
The quickest way to activate your new card is through our mobile app or online banking. We'll show you how to do it below. 
Make sure we’ve got your latest mobile number, as we may need you to confirm online card purchases by text message. Don't forget to sign the back of your card.
Take me straight to 
Activate with mobile banking app 
Activate with online banking 
Activate by phone 
Activate at a cash machine 
Find out more about using your card 
Activate with mobile banking app 
Log on
Log on using biometrics or your Secure Key and then tap the account for the card you want to activate.
Manage cards
Go to ‘Manage cards’ and then select ‘Activate card’.
Select card
Choose the card you need to activate.
Confirm
Review the information displayed and tap ‘Confirm’. Your card is now activated.
Activate with online banking 
Log on
Log on to online banking using your Secure Key and select the account for the card you want to activate.
Manage cards
Go to ‘Manage’ and then select ‘Activate card’.
Select card
Choose the card you need to activate.
Confirm
Review the information displayed and select ‘Confirm’. Your card is now activated.
Log on to online banking Log on to online banking This link will open in a new window 
Activate by phone 
Activate your card in under 60 seconds by calling our automated line, available 24/7. You'll just need your card details and to confirm a few personal details we'll already have on file.
Debit cards
Call us on 0800 783 5263
Credit cards
Call us on 0800 328 1370
Activate at a cash machine 
If you have a new card, and it’s not your first debit card with HSBC, you can activate the card at an ATM.
Locate a cash machine
Make a PIN transaction, such as a cash withdrawal, or balance enquiry at a cash machine and your new card will be automatically activated.
Joint accounts
If you're a joint account holder, and have more than one card on the account, you'll need to activate each card individually.
Find out more about using your card
Freeze or unfreeze your card
Place a temporary block on your card.
Lost, stolen or damaged cards
What to do if you've lost your card or it's not working.
PIN services
Forgotten your PIN, entered it incorrectly or need to change it?
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/activating-your-card/
########Top of main content 
What you need for an ID check 
There may be times when we need to check your documents to confirm your identity (ID) and/or address (VA). This can be done several ways, but we’ll always let you know which is right for you when we ask you to complete these checks. The criteria for which documents we can accept depends on where you’re presenting them.
Take me straight to:
Uploading documents online
Presenting documents at a branch
Sending documents from outside the UK
International Relocations (Corporate Clients)
Uploading documents online 
What ID documents can we accept online? 
You'll need to upload a photo of one of these documents:
passport
full UK birth certificate (under 18s only)
EU/EEA National Identity card (excluding locally issued cards - Greece and Romania)
UK photocard driving licence
You can't use a Biometric Residence Permit as proof of identity. You'll need to upload a photo of your passport instead.
You can use your UK photocard full driving licence as both a proof of ID and proof of address
You can use your UK photocard provisional driving licence as proof of ID, but you will also need to upload an acceptable proof of address. We can't accept your provisional driving licence alone.
What proof of address documents can we accept online?	
If you uploaded your UK photocard full driving licence as a proof of ID, you don't need to upload a separate proof of address. Otherwise, upload a photo of one of these documents:
UK photocard driving licence
UK bank or credit card statement
Council Tax bill
HMRC (HM Revenue and Customs) tax notification
UK personal tax summary
mortgage statement
Sky, cable TV or utility bill
Department for Work and Pensions, Jobcentre Plus or Veterans UK letter confirming your right to benefits
letter from a UK Border Agency accredited college or universityUK Border Agency accredited college or university This link will open in a new window, confirming your acceptance onto a qualifying course
When uploading statements and bills, make sure that:
the document is addressed to you
the document is dated within the last 4 months
you upload the page that shows your name and address
If using Council Tax bills, these need to be either for the current billing year and dated within the last 13 months, or next billing year and dated within last 4 months.
Presenting documents at a branch 
If you only have a limited number of documents, it's better to visit a branch instead - because we can accept a wider range of documents that way.
What ID documents can we accept at a branch? 
You'll need to bring one of these documents:
passport
EU/EEA National Identity card (excluding locally issued cards from Greece and Romania)
travel documents (issued in the UK by the Home Office)
full UK photocard driving licence
full UK paper driving licence
current Northern Ireland voter's card
HMRC (HM Revenue and Customs) tax notification (dated within the last 4 months)
Department for Work and Pensions, Jobcentre Plus or Veterans UK letter confirming your right to benefits (dated within the last 4 months).
Biometric UK Residence Permit (Basic Bank Account customers only)
full UK birth certificate (under 18s only)1
National Health Service letter (under 18s only)
You can use your valid, full UK photocard driving licence to confirm both your address and identity.
If you don't live in the UK, you must always present a passport or national identity card.
What proof of address documents can we accept in branch? 
We'll need to see the original (not a copy) of one of the following documents:
Council Tax bill (for current year) – including online bills
utility bill (dated within last 4 months), including UK online bills
phone bill (dated within the last 4 months). Mobile phone bills are not acceptable
satellite or cable TV bills (dated within the last 4 months), including UK online bills
a valid overseas driving licence (must state address)
credit card bill (dated within the last 4 months), including UK online credit card statements. Certain conditions may apply for financial providers outside the UK
bank, building society, or credit union statement – showing current activity (dated within the last 4 months). Including UK online bank statements. Certain conditions may apply for financial providers outside the UK
mortgage statement from a recognised lender (dated within the last 12 months)
HMRC tax notification (dated within the last 4 months)
tenancy agreement (must be from a local council or reputable lending agency)
Department for Work and Pensions, Jobcentre Plus or Veterans UK letter confirming your right to benefits (dated within the last 4 months).
National Health Service letter (under 18s only)
conditional or unconditional proof of acceptance on to qualifying course – letter or slip issued by UCAS (student accounts only)
letter from a UK Border Agency-accredited college or universityUK Border Agency-accredited college or university This link will open in a new window confirming your acceptance onto a qualifying course
local education authority (LEA) notice of financial support (student bank accounts only)
letter from employer, confirming your address and that you currently work for them (it must be a known employer)
Sending documents from outside the UK 
This advice can vary depending on where you live. The process can be completed online or via post. We'll advise exactly what you'll need to provide, and which channel is relevant to you.
What ID documents are accepted if I'm outside the UK? 
Provide one of the following documents, either by posting a certified copy, or by uploading photos of the original documents online.
your current passport or travel document (copies of passports should include all pages that contain signatures, the passport number and any extension dates where applicable)
your current national identity card (EEA or Swiss nationals only, excluding Romanian and Greek national identity cards)
What proof of address documents are accepted if I'm outside t\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/help-us-identify-you/
########Top of main content 
How to get a bank statement online 
Your statements, anywhere - 24/7 
You can use the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app and Online Banking to monitor your transactions, and to access your statements dating back 6 years.
You can quickly and securely access your statements 24/7, with the ability to view, download, and print your statement. If you’re using Mobile Banking you can even share them too.
Mobile statements 
1. Log in to the app
Once logged in, select which account you would like to view a statement for.
2. View more
In the menu, select 'View more' then choose 'View statements'.
3. Download
Select which month's statement you want to view and it will be automatically downloaded as a pdf on your device.
Please note: Mortgage and Personal loan account statements are unavailable via the Mobile app.
Online statements 
1. Log on to online banking
Using the Quick Links menu select 'Statements'
2. Account services
Alternatively, at the top of the page hover over 'Account Services', under Documents click on 'Statements.'
3. Statement type
Once the account is selected that you would like to view a statement for, then choose the statement type.
4. Download
Select the year and then the month of the statement you want to view and it will automatically be downloaded as a pdf.
From here you can:
view your statement
download a statement
print a statement
or share a statement
(This is useful for times where you may need to prove your address)
Log on to online banking Log on to online banking This link will open in a new window 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
Download the app 
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
Switch to digital statements 
If you’re receiving paper statements, you can also switch to digital statements by following these steps:
Log on to online banking.
Select 'Statement and My documents preferences' in the quick links section.
Set all accounts to 'Online only'.
When you register for online banking, you’ll automatically be switched to paperless statements.
If you're registered for mobile or online banking you can also view other documents in the 'My documents' section.
Please note that not all correspondence from HSBC will be available online and you'll still receive some letters by post.
Credit card statements 
Your statement will list the transactions you’ve made on your credit card within a certain period of time.
Statements show:
your statement date
an account summary
details of transactions you’ve made
any interest or charges (if applicable)
the payment that’s due on the card and the date payable
You should check your statement as soon as it’s issued, so you’re aware of your minimum payment amount and when it’s due. You can also review all account transactions, fees and charges.
With your HSBC credit card, you’ll get monthly statements and an annual credit card statement.
All annual credit card statements are also now available online.
You can find out more here about your annual statementabout your annual statement This link will open in a new window.
Account summary 
This shows your credit limit, interest rate, credits, debits and your opening and closing balances. You’ll be charged if you go over your credit limit.
It also shows your minimum payment and the date when payment is needed. To avoid charges, please make sure we receive at least the minimum payment by this date.
We recommend that you pay more than your minimum payment whenever possible.
You can find out more here about how to make a payment, including how to set up a direct debit payment.
Your transaction details 
These let you see exactly when and where you used your card and the amount it was for.
You'll find everything you need to know here if there are any transactions you don’t recognise.
Summary of interest on your statement 
Any interest charges will be detailed in this separate summary section, along with your current interest rates.
You can also find out about the interest rates applicable to your account by sending a secure message when logged on to online banking.
Sharing a copy of your statement 
If you need a copy of your statement, for example when asked to prove your address, your digital statement is just as valid as the paper version.
You can download Mobile and Online Banking statements as PDFs so you can share them or print them at home.
You can still ask for a one-off printed copy of your statement by using our Chat service in mobile and online banking, where an agent can arrange for a copy to be sent to you.
Alternatively, you can:
		
give us a call if you’re registered for telephone banking
pop into your nearest branch and ask us to order you a copy
Note: if you’ve changed your address details, this will be reflected in your next statement.
Understanding your statement 
If you’re not sure about any of the terms or abbreviations that appear on your statement, please read our helpful guide.
Additional information 
Find out more about the operating systems our app works onoperating systems our app works on This link will open in a new window.
Apple and the Apple Logo are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc.
Google Play and the Google Play logo are trademarks of Google LLC. This webpage is not endorsed by or affiliated with Google in any way.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/online-statements/
########Top of main content 
Checklist for planning your retirement 
You can decide to retire at any age, but to get there in tip-top financial shape takes some planning. 
Whether you’re in your 20s or 60s, we have some helpful tips to help you financially prepare for the future. 
We won’t tell you how much you should be saving – everyone’s monthly budget is different. What really counts is what you choose to do with any money you’re able to put aside. 
Here’s a checklist of what you could be doing now, depending on your age. 
Skip to:
How to plan for retirement in your 20s
How to plan for retirement in your 30s
How to plan for retirement in your 40s
How to plan for retirement in your 50s
How to plan for retirement in your 60s
How to plan for retirement in your 20s: the sensible starters’ decade 
The 20s decade is the age of financial freedom. It’s often the time when you step onto a career path and experience the power that comes with real earning (and spending) potential. 
At this stage, retirement will probably feel a long way off. But the sooner you start saving, the better off you’ll be. 
What you could be doing in your 20s:
Start a financial action plan
Work out your monthly budget so you know how much money you can save.
Join your workplace pension scheme
Make sure you’re enrolled in your workplace pension scheme and make the most of any matching contributions (‘free money’) that come from your employer.
Make regular savings
Whether you save or invest, you can start today with a small amount and add to it. This way, you’ll soon be earning interest on your interest.
The 20s mantra: watch that spending and save when you can.
How to plan for retirement in your 30s: the serious savers’ decade 
The 30s decade is all about building on what you’ve started. And if you haven’t started yet, now is the time to do it. 
Hopefully, you’ll be earning more because your salary has increased with your experience. 
Keep an eye on your outgoings, including household bills, subscription services and other expenses. Make sure you’re not spending more than you can afford.
What you could be doing in your 30s:
Add an extra 1% to your pension pot
Consider doing this every time you get a pay rise – before you even get the extra money, so you don’t miss it.
Maximise your ISA (individual savings account) allowance
You can save up to £20,000 in the current tax year and your returns will be free from UK income tax and capital gains tax. The value of these benefits will depend on your circumstances, and tax rules could change in the future.
Embrace new technology
Take a more active interest in your finances through online money management tools – or try our retirement lifestyle calculator retirement lifestyle calculator This link will open in a new window. 
The 30s mantra: it’s time to stash some cash.
How to plan for retirement in your 40s: the powerful players’ decade 
The 40s decade is an age of big earning and spending potential. All being well, you could be at the peak of your career, or supercharging it by starting your own business or stepping out in another direction. 
But if you’re not where you want to be, it’s not too late to save for your retirement. Now is the time to take a long, hard look at how you manage your money, including any debts you may have. 
You may also want to update your financial action plan. 
What you could be doing in your 40s:
Mind the gap
Use our retirement calculator retirement calculator This link will open in a new window to see whether you’re on track to achieve the lifestyle you’d want. Find out how much state pension you could get how much state pension you could get This link will open in a new window and see if you’re able to top up any gaps in your National Insurance contributions top up any gaps in your National Insurance contributions This link will open in a new window.
Consider investing
If you’re willing to take a little risk, investments – such as a ready-made portfolio – could be a great way to enhance your retirement pot. Bear in mind, the value of investments can fall as well as rise.
Set up a separate savings or investments pot
You may want to put some money aside for your family's future or a lifelong dream you want to pursue. 
The 40s mantra: inject some extra rocket fuel into your savings plan. 
How to plan for retirement in your 50s: the financial-focus decade 
The 50s decade is when those previously distant retirement goals start coming into sight – scarily fast. This is catch-up time where you need to focus on boosting your savings. 
Don’t be tempted to coast now just because you’re nearly there. Especially if anything major in your life has changed, like financial and emotional downturns or career and relationship shifts. 
Protect the pension pot you’re still working hard for, in case anything happens. 
What you could be doing in your 50s:
Make sure your plans are in good shape
Invest some time in improving your financial wellbeing. Make sure you have a clear picture of what you want your retirement to look like. Our retirement calculator retirement calculator This link will open in a new window can give you an indication of whether you’re on track.
Be savvy about the tax you’ll pay in retirement
If you have a partner and one of you is a higher-rate taxpayer and one of you is a basic-rate taxpayer, it could make financial sense to boost the basic-rate pension pot. Again, this will depend on your circumstances – and remember that tax rules could change in the future.
Consider combining your pensions
You could consolidate your pension schemes – although be aware of losing any existing benefits and any exit fees involved.
Start thinking about estate planning
Find out about how to manage your inheritance tax bill.
The 50s mantra: keep your eyes on the prize.
How to plan for retirement in your 60s: the live-life decade 
The 60s decade is not an age where one life stops, and another begins. It’s a gradual transition – one that you should be in control of. 
If you pla\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/retirement-checklist/
########Top of main content 
How to live your best life, in later life 
Life beyond work offers the chance to focus on the things that mean the most to you. 
That could be more time with family, travelling the world or even some ‘less-worky’ work.
Whether you’re planning to retire on a certain date, go part-time or take a break and re-set your career, thinking ahead and setting goals can put you on course for the future you want.
So, what do you want to do?
When do you want to do it?
How much is it going to cost?
Are you setting aside enough money to achieve it?
So, what do you want to do? 
Sometimes it takes a trigger to make you think about your own future, such as seeing a colleague retire or speaking to friends and family about their own plans.
Here are some of the key things to consider to help you figure out what you want your future to look like. 
Career and work
Do you want to give up work, go part-time, or set up your own business? Or do something completely different?
Whatever you’d like to do in the future, try to start working towards it as soon as you can. That might mean saving or investing more money to become gradually less reliant on a salary, or starting to hone other skills.
If you dream of being a writer one day, you don’t have to wait until you’re retired to first put pen to paper.
Moving or staying put
When it comes to where you want to live, take note of what aspects are important to you, such as proximity to family, amenities, or climate.
Ask yourself if you're happy living where you are, or have you always fancied heading to the coast, the country, or another country altogether?
If you do want to stay where you are – would you keep the home you've got, or look to downsize? If you were to move, could you potentially make some money on selling your place to help fund your lifestyle?
Enjoyment
Do you have a burning passion you’d like to pursue? Maybe it’s art, turning a hobby into a business, or simply spending more time in the garden? Maybe it’s combining all three: selling paintings of gardens, for example. OK, that may be a little niche, but plenty of people have turned a hobby into a profitable way of living.
Do you want to take the chance to travel more and experience new places, cultures and activities? Or are the things that mean most to you closer to home – friends and family, for example.
Environment and community
Do you want to give something back to your local community, whether it's volunteering your time or simply being there for loved ones? Would you like to transition towards that while still working, or make a clean break at a certain point?
Family
Do you want to be able to spend more time with your family, whether that’s children, grandchildren or your parents? Will you need to provide financial support for them and if so, how much might that be and for how long?
It’s important to consider the balance between being able to provide financial support for your family and trying to free up enough time to spend together.
When do you want to do it? 
Even if you don’t have grand plans to give up work and travel the world someday, it’s a good idea to have a rough timescale for when you’d like to slow down – or even stop work altogether.
You can move your timeline to suit your plans, but having an idea gives you a target for when you want to become financially independent.
This might be hard to picture when you’re in your 20s or 30s. But the sooner you start to save, the more options you’ll give yourself in the future.
How much is it going to cost? 
A key part of planning for your long-term future is knowing how much you’ll need to live on when you no longer work – or work less. And that means being realistic about the kind of lifestyle you want.
Use our retirement calculator to help you work out how much you may need to live on how much you may need to live on This link will open in a new window.
It asks you questions about the holidays you’d like to take, the car you’d want to drive (could be electric by then), and the amount you’d spend a week on groceries. From there, it gives you a figure to aim for.
It’s worth remembering the new State Pension currently provides a maximum income of £203.85 a week (figures correct for 2023/2024 tax year). For many people, this may not be enough to live on.
Are you setting aside enough money to achieve it? 
Our retirement calculator asks about your old pensions and how much is being saved into your current pension. It then projects whether you’re on track to lead the kind of life you’d like to live – and if not, it tells you some of the things you could do about it.
The important thing is to take action now. The more money you can put aside today, the greater chance you’ll have of living your best life, in later life.
Did you find this article useful? 
Yes 
No 
Please tell us your reason
Too complicated 
Too long 
Not what I was expecting 
Not enough information 
Poor layout 
Back to top 
What next? 
Try our retirement calculator Try our retirement calculator This link will open in a new window 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Checklist for planning your retirement 
How much do you need to retire? 
What to do if you haven't saved enough for retirement\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/living-your-best-life-in-later-life/
########Top of main content 
How much do you need to retire? 
It’s hard to know exactly how much you’ll need in later life because everyone has different circumstances and different expectations. 
But by planning how much you’ll need, and working out how best to build up your pension pot, you'll be in a great position to live your best life in later life. 
Retirement calculator 
Take the quick quiz in our retirement calculator to work out which retirement lifestyle would suit you best. 
Take the quiz Take the quiz Retirement calculator This link will open in a new window 
What lifestyle do you want in retirement? 
People have different ideas of how they might live when they’ve finished working.
The Pensions and Lifetime Savings Association (PLSA) broadly categorises these into 3 retirement living standards: 
Minimum – geared towards paying for essentials with all your needs covered. 
Moderate – gives financial security and some flexibility. 
Comfortable – provides more financial freedom and some luxuries. 
How many holidays do you see yourself taking a year? Would you have a car? If so, how often would you want to replace it? And how much home maintenance do you think you’ll need to do?
How much will you need to retire? 
When it comes to working out the retirement income you’ll need, it’s easy to make the mistake of basing the figure on your salary while working. So, you’re likely to think you need more to live on than you actually do.
Bear in mind your living costs will probably change in later life – often significantly.
People tend to spend less on housing costs such as mortgages, but more on things like heating bills, healthcare and insurance. 
Many people's spending also goes down after they stop working because they no longer have to worry about things like commuting and pension contributions.
Research from the PLSA Research from the PLSA This link will open in a new window, in conjunction with Loughborough University, suggests that retired couples living outside London are spending on average around £34,000 a year in 2022 (excluding housing costs). That’s an almost 20% increase over the last year. 
They suggest this amount should be enough for what they call a ‘moderate’ lifestyle.
As well as paying for all your everyday spending, it should cover some extras, such as 2 weeks’ holiday a year in the UK and Europe. It also covers spending £100 each month on eating out. 
To achieve a ‘comfortable’ lifestyle, including 3 weeks’ holiday a year and running 2 cars, a couple would need a figure closer to £54,000 a year. 
Our nifty retirement calculator will show you the projected income you’ll need based on the lifestyle you’d like to have in retirement. 
How much should you save into your pension? 
Here’s a quick way of calculating how much to save: at the time you start saving for your pension, halve your age, then use that number as the percentage of your salary you should aim to save each year.
Many experts recommend this rule of thumb. It would mean if you start at 20, you should aim to be saving 10% of your annual income towards your pension. If you start when you turn 30, this would rise to 15% and so on.
For most people, your pension income will come from 3 sources:
your State Pension 
a private and/or workplace pension scheme 
any other income, from property or investments, for example 
Our retirement calculator helps you work out your projected retirement income. It’s based on the State Pension you’ll likely receive, the current value of your pension pot and the total amount you’re contributing each month.
It will also tell you if you’re on target to achieve the lifestyle you’d like in retirement. Plus, you can play around with the results to see what difference it would make if you saved more each month. Or worked longer. 
And if find you aren’t quite saving enough – which isn’t unusual – we have some useful tips on how to take positive steps. 
Back to top 
What next? 
Try our retirement calculator Try our retirement calculator Try our retirement calculator This link will open in a new window 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
6 simple ways to save for your future 
Should you invest in a pension or an ISA? 
Should you consolidate your pensions?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/how-much-do-you-need-to-retire/
########Top of main content 
How to save for your future 
Wouldn't it be nice to feel more relaxed about money? To know you're making the most of what you have while setting yourself up for the future – all without too much effort? 
Our 7-point plan can help put you on the road to financial freedom, so you could live the life you want in years to come without compromising too much on your lifestyle today.
Keep track of your spending
Mindful spending
Set up a standing order or Direct Debit
Set savings goals
Make contributions into your pension
Consider investing your money
Keep your savings options open
Keep track of your spending 
The first step towards finding extra money to put away for the future is to track your spending. Look at what you spend on bills and household expenses, food and fun to see if you can spot ways to save.
Whether it’s finding a better deal on your rent, mortgage or utilities, cutting your weekly shop or cancelling unwanted subscriptions, there are simple ways to reduce your essential costs.
If working from home is an option, doing so more often could save you money – as many people have already discovered. And if you do commute, swapping trains and buses for walking or cycling, where possible, can make a big difference.
Whatever ways you find to save, remember even small amounts add up. For example:
£5 a week = £260 a year 
£10 a week = £520 a year 
£20 a week = £1,040 a year 
Our tools and budget calculators can help you get started:
get a clear view of your overall finances with our financial fitness tool 
use our budget planner to plan your monthly expenses 
see how Balance After Bills can help you stay on track from one payday to the next 
Mindful spending 
You don’t need to be told that making coffee or lunch at home is cheaper than buying it out. But there’s no need to sacrifice all the things you enjoy to achieve the future you want. Far from it.
Spending more mindfully could make a real difference to your future lifestyle. So, beyond the essentials, aim to put your money towards things and experiences that really mean something to you.
And, remember, cheaper isn’t always best. If you spend a little more on things like clothes, furniture and household items that stand the test of time, it could end up costing you less in the end. Plus, it’s better for the environment.
Setting aside any money you save – either in a savings or investment account, or a pension – could also mean you can enjoy more of the things you love in the future.
Explore: Mindful spending
Set up a standing order or Direct Debit 
Remember the flight attendant line about putting on your own oxygen mask first? Well, it’s the same with savings. Setting up Direct Debits or standing orders to pay bills is the norm. So, why not make paying yourself a priority too?
By setting up a standing order for your savings to go out on the day you get paid, you’ll be doing yourself a big favour in the future. And you shouldn’t notice a big change day to day.
You can open a savings account from as little as £1 (eligibility criteria apply). Depending on how much you set aside, you’ll soon get used to having a bit less to spend every month. And you’ll be surprised how quickly your savings start to build up.
Set savings goals 
You may have short term or long term goals you’re wanting to achieve, such as paying off your mortgage, or doing some home improvements to future proof your current home. 
Deciding what you want to save for, how much you need to save, and a date for when you want to have the money by can help you create a plan of action. Using our savings goal calculator for help creating a timeline. 
Explore: How to set and achieve your savings goals
Make contributions into your pension 
Paying into a pension may feel like the last thing on your mind if you’re struggling to pay the bills. But you’re never too young to start saving for life after work. And it’s important to remember that the money you put away now could be worth so much more in the future.
Pensions offer tax advantages over other forms of savings. If you’re lucky enough to be auto-enrolled into a workplace pension or have chosen to take advantage of your employer’s scheme, you’ll already be benefitting. That’s because both you and your employer will be paying into your pension.
Your employer may encourage you to pay more than the minimum by matching your contributions. If so, whatever extra you put in, they’ll contribute the same, up to a certain amount. This is effectively ‘free’ money. So, if this benefit is available to you, consider contributing as much as you can.
If you’re self-employed or don’t want to solely rely on your workplace pension, you can set one up yourself. There are a wide range of pension providers and options to choose from.
Consider investing your money 
Investing offers your money more potential to grow and could be a way to make it work harder. To get an idea of what your money might be worth in years to come, try our investment calculator. Just remember that investments can go down and up, so you could get back less than you invest.
Your money’s not locked away – you can access your investment if you need to. However, you should see investing as a longer-term option for your money and plan to leave it invested for at least 5 years. This gives it the chance to recover from any dips in the market.
It’s a good idea to have an emergency fund of around 6 months’ living costs in place before you begin. That way if you lose your job or get an unexpected bill, you shouldn’t have to dip into your investment.
If you’re new to investing, we can show you where to begin. And it doesn’t cost much to get started. With HSBC, you can invest with £50 per month. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Keep your savings options open 
The future can always feel uncertain. Most of us don’t know what we'll want to be doing in 10, 20 or 30 years’ time.
By starting as early as you can, finding ways to put money aside and contributing regularly, you\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/simple-ways-to-save-for-your-future/
########Top of main content 
What is a workplace pension? 
A workplace pension is essentially a savings scheme that you, your employer and the government pay into for your later life. 
We know the word 'pension' can be a turn-off. But it pays to get to grips with your employer's workplace pension and how it works. 
That's because the more of your income you can put away now while you're working, the more financially comfortable you'll be in the future.
Here's what else you need to know.
Are you eligible for a workplace pension?
How do workplace pensions work?
What are the different types of workplace pension?
How much is paid into a workplace pension?
What is pension tax relief?
What age can you start taking money out of your workplace pension?
How do you claim your workplace pension?
Can you opt out of a workplace pension?
Can I have a SIPP and a workplace pension?
Are you eligible for a workplace pension? 
All employers have to provide a workplace pension scheme. They should automatically enrol automatically enrol This link will open in a new window you in their scheme if: 
you're classed as a ‘worker’ 
you're aged between 22 and State Pension ageState Pension age This link will open in a new window 
you earn at least £10,000 a year11 view footnote 1 
you usually (or ‘ordinarily’) work in the UK 
All 4 of these must apply for your employer to enrol you in their workplace pension. 
If you don't qualify for auto-enrolment, you can usually still join your workplace pension anyway if you want to. Your employer can't refuse.
How do workplace pensions work? 
Workplace pensions Workplace pensions This link will open in a new window, also known as company pensions, are where a percentage of your salary is automatically taken each payday and added into the pension scheme. Your employer may also add money into your pension, and you may get tax relief from the government. 
Workplace pensions are arranged by your employer.
What are the different types of workplace pension? 
There are 2 main types of workplace pension:
defined contribution, also called 'money purchase' schemes 
defined benefit, sometimes referred to as 'final salary' schemes 
What is a defined contribution pension scheme? 
A defined contribution scheme is where your pension pot builds up according to how much is paid into it. Your money will be invested in the default fund that your employer has chosen. You may be able to choose to have your money invested into other funds. 
What is a defined benefit pension scheme? 
A defined benefit scheme is normally based on your salary and how long you worked for your employer. For most schemes, you'll get a percentage of your final salary for each year you've worked for them. 
How much is paid into a workplace pension? 
If you earn more than £520 a month (or £120 a week), your employer must contribute a minimum of 3% of your qualifying earnings. You'll also need to contribute at least 5% of your qualifying earnings.
Your qualifying earnings are everything you earn between 2 limits set by the government.
They include salary, wages, bonuses, commission, statutory sick pay, paternity and maternity pay and overtime.
These limits are reviewed annually and for the tax year 2023/2024 are between £6,240 and £50,270. So, the maximum qualifying earnings are £44,030 (£50,270 minus £6,240).
What is pension tax relief? 
Pension tax relief is when the income tax you'd normally pay to the government goes towards your pension instead. 
This is one of the best features of using a pension. It can help reduce the amount of tax you pay and boosts your savings for the future. 
There are 2 methods for getting tax relief on your pension contributions, either through 'relief at source' or through your net pay. Check with your employer to find out what the tax arrangement is for your pension contributions.
Here's an example of how much tax relief you have with total earnings of £26,240 a year, making your qualifying earnings £20,000: 
You put in £1,000 a year (5% of £20,000). 
Your employer puts in a further £600 a year (3%). 
You get £150 tax relief from the government. 
So, a total of £1,750 goes into your pension. 
If your employer offers to match any extra contributions you make, you could get even more 'free money' in your pension pot. It’s a good idea to chat to your employer to find out if they offer this benefit.
See more about the pension tax relief from the MoneyHelper MoneyHelper This link will open in a new window.
What age can you start taking money out of your workplace pension? 
Most workplace pensions set an age when you can take your pension, usually between 60 and 65. Ask your employer about when you'll be able to access your pension.
Normally it's best to hold off from accessing your workplace pension for as long as you can afford to – certainly until you're no longer working full-time. This gives more time for your pension to grow and for you to make further contributions to it.
You should also be careful of firms offering ways to take your pension before the age of 55. Taking your pension early in this way could mean you pay tax of up to 55%. Beware also of pension scams.
How do you claim your workplace pension? 
Depending on the scheme Depending on the scheme This link will open in a new window and your circumstances, you may be able to take 25% of your pension tax-free. You’ll then need to pay income tax on the remaining 75%. 
Can you opt out of a workplace pension? 
Yes, you can opt out of a company pension if you want to. 
You may have been automatically enrolled to the workplace pension scheme by your employer. If you want to opt out, contact your pension provider. Your employer will be able to give you more information on how to do this. 
If you’ve not been automatically enrolled, speak to your employer about what to do. 
Can you have a SIPP and a workplace pension? 
Yes, you can have a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and a workplace pension. You should be able to pay into them both at the sa\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/what-is-a-workplace-pension/
########Top of main content 
Should you invest in a pension or an ISA?	
You want to give yourself the best chance of financial freedom in the future. But it can be tough to know what to do with your money. 
Here, we explore the pros and cons of private pensions and stocks & shares ISAs to help you decide which one – or whether a combination of both – might be right for you.
Remember, if you have a workplace pension, this should always be the first place you save for your retirement. You can find out more about how pensions work here.
And keep in mind that the value of tax benefits will depend on your circumstances and tax rules may change in the future.
	
When do you want to access the money?
What about tax?
What about your estate?
The key takeaway
Pensions vs stocks & shares ISAs – at a glance
When do you want to access your money? 
Pensions 
Putting money into a private pension can give you peace of mind that you're getting prepared to live the lifestyle you want beyond work.
Because pension funds are invested in various assets – including shares and bonds – for a long period of time, your money has the opportunity to grow.
When can you access your pension? 
To give your retirement pot the best chance to grow, pensions are locked away, so you won't be able to access your money until at least age 55 – or age 57 if you were born after April 1971.
These days, most pensions include income drawdown as a way of taking money from your pension whenever you like after your 55th (or 57th) birthday.
Stocks & shares ISAs 
Unlike a pension, putting your money in a stocks & shares ISA means it's not locked away until you're at least 55. This gives you the potential to do more with it, be it taking a sabbatical to go travelling, starting a new business, or something else entirely.
Keep in mind that if you spend the retirement savings you've put in an ISA while you're still working, it means you’ll have less to retire on when you finally stop working or be forced to work for longer.
However, being able to access your money when you want does give you the opportunity to re-invest it in something else. For example, using it as a deposit to buy a rental or holiday let property could potentially provide long-term income as well as capital growth.
Remember, you should still invest for at least 5 years. And with investing, there's always a risk you might get back less than you put in. So if you're in a hurry to access your cash, you may end up selling your investments at a low point in the market, meaning you could lose money.
What about tax? 
No matter what stage of life you're at, the more money you're able to put aside, the more chance you’ll have of living the lifestyle you want in the future.
But it’s worth knowing about the tax benefits of pensions and ISAs, as these can have a big impact on the amount you’ll end up with.
The government lets you pay in up to 100% of your earnings into pensions, or £60,000 each year, whichever is lower. Before making any large contributions, it's a good idea to speak to a financial adviser to make sure you're doing the right thing.
Pension providers will reclaim basic rate income tax on your contributions. For example, if you put £20,000 into a pension, the government will add a further £5,000 in tax relief and so you’ll have £25,000 invested for your future. And if you pay more than the basic rate, you could reclaim additional tax relief.
As your pension grows, there is no capital gains or income tax to pay on the pension fund and because of the tax relief, you'll have a bigger initial sum invested compared to an ISA.
When you retire, you can normally take up to a quarter of your pension pot tax-free. Some pensions let you do this automatically each month and others whenever you need it. After that, you'll have to pay income tax on the remainder, just as you would on your employment income.
Do you pay tax on a stocks & shares ISA? 
You can save up to £20,000 a year in an ISA in the 2023/2024 tax year. It's worth trying to make the most of this tax-free allowance as well as your pension savings.
You're most likely to have paid income tax on any money you pay into an ISA. However, as it grows, you'll pay no tax on capital gains and dividends when you cash it in.
What about your estate? 
If you've saved well throughout your life, you'll want to know you can pass your money on to loved ones after your death. So, how is the money in a pension or ISA treated when you die?
What happens to your pension when you die? 
You decide who you'd like to receive your pension when you die and your estate won't pay any inheritance tax on it.
Each of your beneficiaries will receive their share of your pension pot. They each decide how to invest the pot they have inherited and when to draw an income or lump sums from it.
They won't pay income tax on these withdrawals if you die before age 75. If you die age 75 or older, the withdrawals they make from the pension will be liable to income tax.
A beneficiary can even leave any remaining pension fund to their children or others on their death. So your spouse, children and even grandchildren can receive your pension pot and pay no inheritance tax on it.
What happens to your stocks & shares ISAs when you die? 
Any ISAs form part of your estate and are liable to inheritance tax unless you leave your estate to an exempt person, such as a spouse or civil partner. 
The amount you have in ISAs can be claimed as an additional ISA allowance by your spouse or civil partner when you die. This is the case even if you don't leave your estate to them.
If you or your spouse or civil partner has an estate that exceeds the inheritance tax threshold, pensions can be more attractive than ISAs when looking at what happens when you die.
Can you have both a pension and an ISA? 
If you can afford to, it makes sense to pay into a pension and invest some funds in a stocks and shares ISA. That way, you can enjoy the tax and long-term benefits of a pension and have some money \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/should-you-invest-in-a-pension-or-an-isa/
########Top of main content 
What to do if you haven’t saved enough for retirement 
If you’ve reached mid-life without thinking too much about your future finances, you’re not alone. Many of us could be described as ‘financial late bloomers’. 
But there’s no need to panic. It’s never too late. The key thing is to act now so you can give your money more time to grow. Plus, you’ll feel better for taking some positive steps.
Here are some options for you to consider:
Get more from your existing pensions
Increase retirement savings
If you’re in a relationship, make the most of your joint allowances
Adjust your retirement plans
Get more from your existing pensions 
Increase pension contributions 
If you can free up more cash to go towards your retirement, now’s the time to increase your pension contributions. This way you can add as much as possible to your retirement savings and make the most of the tax relief from the government. As always, the longer you have your money invested, the more time and potential it has to grow.
If you have a workplace pension, does your employer offer to match any additional contributions that you make? If so, this is a wonderful benefit – try to take full advantage of it.
What is a salary sacrifice pension? 
With a workplace pension, you may get the option for salary sacrifice. This is where both you and your employer agree to reduce your salary, they’ll then pay the difference into your pension plus their contribution. It can make your pension savings efforts more tax-efficient. 
Consider moving savings or investments into your private pension 
If you’re willing to lock away some of your savings or investments until you’re at least 55 (or 57 from 2028), paying them into your private pension could make a lot of sense.
Everyone who works can pay up to 100% of their earnings each year into pensions, which is capped at £60,000. You could carry forward any unused allowances for up to 3 tax years, so it’s possible to invest a significant amount and receive tax relief on all of your contributions. 
For example, if you were to move £20,000 from your savings into a private pension, the government would add £5,000, taking your pension total to £25,000. If you’re a higher-rate taxpayer, you could also reclaim up to an additional £5,000 in tax relief.
Keep in mind that when you retire, up to 25% of your pension fund is tax free and you’ll pay income tax on the rest. Tax benefits will depend on your circumstances and tax rules may change in the future.
Before making any large pension contributions, it’s a good idea to pay for some financial advice to make sure you’re doing the right thing.
Take stock of your existing workplace or private pensions 
Check what funds your existing pensions are currently invested in, how they’re performing, what the charges are and if you’re able to make any changes.
You may want to consider changing the fund you’re invested in. Particularly if you still have many years left in your working life, the default fund may not always be the right fund for you.
For example, most workplace pensions automatically change their investment allocations the closer you get to retirement – but this may not align with your retirement goals. So take a look at your options.
If you have a private pension, you might want to shop around to find a provider with lower charges, a better track record, or one with more suitable investment options – like sustainable funds, for example. 
It may even be worth consolidating your pensions, although you should always check any exit fees and what, if any, benefits you’d lose if you were to transfer your pensions elsewhere. But be careful of scams be careful of scams This link will open in a new window as not everyone advertising ways to transfer your pension are what they make out to be. 
How to trace old pensions 
If you’ve had several jobs over the years, it’s also worth checking to see if you have any missing pensions by contacting the Pensions Tracing Service Pensions Tracing Service This link will open in a new window. They estimate there is £20 billion in lost pensions in the UK.
Check your State Pension and National Insurance contributions 
Providing you’ve made at least 10 years’ worth of National Insurance contributions, you’ll be entitled to some level of State Pension from the government. For many, the State Pension is a lifeline. For others, it’s a great way to top-up their retirement income.
How to get a state pension forecast 
To find out how much you could get and if you can increase it, check your State Pension forecast State Pension forecast This link will open in a new window.
If you have gaps in your contributions or credits – either from taking a career break, living abroad, being self-employed with low earnings or having a low income – these periods would not count towards your State Pension.
It’s worth checking your National Insurance record National Insurance record This link will open in a new window to see if you can make voluntary contributions to fill any gaps and, if so, how much this would cost to top up your State Pension.
Increase retirement savings 
It’s simple. The more you save now, the more you’ll have to retire on. Plus, the more time you’ll give that money to grow. So take a fresh look at your finances to see if you could be smarter with your money. Or think about whether you could generate any extra income for your retirement from a hobby or side job.
Use our retirement calculator retirement calculator This link will open in a new window to help visualise your retirement. 
If you can put more aside, you might consider investing into a stocks & shares ISA on top of your pension. There’s still time for your money to grow and an investment could give you more flexibility than investing in a pension. To understand the differences and merits of each, see our article on pensions vs investments.
And if you’re fortunate enough to receive a windfall, investing could be a great option for that money. That \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/not-saved-enough-for-retirement/
########Top of main content 
Should you consolidate your pensions? 
If like many, you’ve had a few jobs over your career, you may have several pension pots dotted around. Some you may have even forgotten about. 
As many as 1.6 million pension pots have been lost, often because people moved house and forgot to let their pension providers know. This means £19.4 billion worth of hard-earned pension savings have been left unclaimed11 view footnote 1.
In this article, we look at why you might merge your pensions and things you need to consider.
What is pension consolidation?
Why might you transfer your pensions?
Is combining your pensions right for you?
How to consolidate your pensions
Take professional advice before you act
Be aware of pension scams
What is pension consolidation? 
Pension consolidation is when you combine 2 or more pensions into one pot. It’s also known as ‘transferring’ or ‘merging’ your pensions as you move your money out of one scheme and into another.
Why might you transfer your pensions? 
There are several good reasons why you might consider merging some or all of your pensions into one pot:
1. It makes them easier to manage 
If your pension savings are in one place, you’ll be able to see if you're on track to meet your goals.
It can also be motivating to see your money grow – it may even tempt you to add more in.
2. It creates less admin 
Most of us dread wading through lots of financial paperwork, and pensions often come top of the list of things we put off.
Bringing your pensions together might create some extra admin in the short term, but it could be worth it to know all your savings are in one place.
Plus, you’ll get fewer statements each year.
3. You’d get a single pension payment 
When you retire, rather than receiving several smaller payments each month, a combined pension means you get one larger payment – so it’s easier to budget.
4. It could reduce your pension charges 
A single pension pot could mean you’ll pay less in charges.
It’s definitely worth checking the charges of your various pensions. Because having several smaller pension pots may be more expensive than consolidating them in one place.
5. It could make your money work harder 
If you have several pots, chances are one is performing better than the others – although past performance is no guarantee it will do as well in the future.
It’s important to understand both the performance and the charges on each pot to see which is working harder for you.
6. It could give you more investment choices 
Your pensions may be invested in funds that aren’t suitable for you as many schemes offer a limited range of investments.
By combining them, you could have more choice in where your pension is invested – you might want to opt for a sustainable fund, for example.
You can also make sure you’re happy with how much risk is being taken.
7. It could give you more flexibility when you retire 
Newer pensions can be more flexible when accessing your money in retirement.
Changes to pension legislation in recent years have given people more freedom to control their pensions when they retire.
Check the details of your scheme to find out whether this applies to your pension.
Is combining your pensions right for you? 
To explore your options, start by making a list of the pensions you’ve got. 
Pension providers will usually send you a statement each year. However, if you’ve moved several times, you may have lost track of a pension or two. If you need help to locate your old pensions, try the Pension Tracing Service Pension Tracing Service This link will open in a new window.
Once you’ve listed all your pensions, contact each provider and ask them for details of your scheme – and keep all your paperwork together.
Before you transfer your pensions into a single pot, you need to be sure it’s the right thing to do. Some pensions may charge you for transferring out, while other types of schemes offer benefits you might want to keep.
Take a close look at each of your pensions and ask yourself the following:
Do I have a final salary pension? 
It almost certainly makes sense to stay in a final salary scheme – also known as a defined benefit scheme. That’s because it offers a guaranteed income for life, which may rise with the cost of living. It may also offer a pension for your spouse or partner when you die.
If your pension is a defined contribution or money purchase scheme, this isn’t a final salary scheme so it may be worth transferring it.
Does my scheme offer safeguarded benefits, such as generous guaranteed annuity rates? 
Safeguarded pension benefits include some form of guarantee or promise such as an annuity rate – the rate at which you convert your pension savings into a guaranteed annual income. 
Annuity rates have improved recently but may still be lower than the rate that may be guaranteed by your pension scheme. So, if you’ve been promised a good rate, it could be worth holding onto if you want the security of a higher guaranteed income for life.
Are there any exit fees? 
These might kick in if you move your pension pot to another scheme. If they’re high, moving your money could be a false economy.
What are the pension scheme charges? 
Most schemes charge an annual percentage of your pot to manage your pension. But some also charge a monetary fee, such as £100 each year, on top of the percentage charge.
Make sure you know what charges apply to your pensions, as high fees can eat away at smaller pots.
How to consolidate your pensions 
If you’re sure that consolidating is right for you, you just need to tell your current provider (or a new provider) you want to consolidate your separate pensions. They’ll be able to start the consolidation process. 
How long it takes can depend on a number of factors, such as the number of pensions pots you’re combining. 
Remember, before consolidating, you need to be sure your pensions don’t have any benefits you could lose if you merge them together. Also make sure you consider all charges an\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/should-you-consolidate-your-pensions/
########Top of main content 
What is financial planning? 
Financial planning is exactly as it sounds – it’s planning your finances. 
It’s an ongoing process which can help you achieve any long-term goals you may have, such as planning for retirement, while still supporting your short-term needs. 
Personal financial planning can help you achieve goals, lower stress and manage your money. But it’s often the last thing on our minds.
Here, we look at:
Why aren’t we planning ahead?
The benefits of financial planning
How does financial planning work?
Financial planning tools
Why aren’t we planning ahead? 
It’s our human nature to want everything now 
When it comes to our finances, it’s so tempting to have it all today – we just can’t seem to help ourselves. Get the reward now rather than later. Choose immediate gratification over long-term satisfaction. It’s how we’re wired. 
And as much as we can try to evolve to think more long-term, there are also the cultural influences to consider. 
Temptation to spend is everywhere 
Millennials are a good example of a ‘have it now’ generation. Born between 1980 and 2000, they are the first generation of digital natives, with access to all the information they need.
On one hand, they have a world of financial information, education and advice at their fingertips. And on the other, they may feel pressure to compare and compete with what they see on social media: 
better holidays 
smarter mobiles 
designer clothes 
cosmetic tweaks 
faster gaming 
Following the global financial crisis – a time of low wages and very low interest rates – it’s easy to see how this generation could be swayed to spend, rather than save. And they’re not the only ones.
Our excuses hold us back, financially 
It’s not a lack of education, information or professional advice that holds us back – it’s us. 
We find it difficult to share our thoughts and worries about money. It’s easy to lose perspective and develop a skewed view of our finances. For example, you may feel:
ashamed – believing your friends are richer, happier and more successful than you are 
disconnected – thinking investing for the future is something other people do 
afraid of change – finding new opportunities more threatening than exciting 
It can be easier to believe our own excuses rather than change the way we think. 
The benefits of financial planning 
It’s good to talk. There are many benefits that come with talking about money, engaging with your long-term finances and planning your financial future. And we’re not just talking financial benefits, there are personal wellbeing benefits too. 
It can help you:
Achieve your goals 
Once you stop worrying about keeping up with everyone else’s life goals, you can focus on your own. From holiday adventures to a new business endeavour – once you know what you want, you can put a financial plan in place to make it happen.
Reduce stress and anxiety 
When you bottle something up, it can cause a lot of stress and anxiety over time. Especially, when it’s to do with your finances. Many people feel this way – you’re not alone. 
No matter what your financial situation looks like, support is available. And talking to someone you trust can help you take action and feel more confident.
Learn from others 
There are all sorts of saving and investing tips out there. The more you talk about money matters, the more opportunities you’ll have to share with, and learn from, others.
Talking of investing, we know it isn’t for everyone. There are fees involved and you may not get back what you put in. Yet despite that, it could also give your money its best potential to grow. If you know anyone who invests, why not ask them how they got started?
Explore: New to investing
How does financial planning work? 
Personal financial planning works by creating a step-by-step guide to manage your money and reach your financial goals. It can help you identify where you want to be in life with regards to your money, and how you can potentially get there.
Financial planning could help you feel more in control of your income and outgoings, as well as any investments you may have. 
A financial health check can give you a view of your finances, and see where you could potentially make changes.
Financial planning tools 
Not sure where to begin? Don’t worry, here are a few ways you can start putting plans in place:
1. Use online calculators to work out your options 
Easy to access and free to use, you’ll find online calculators for everything, from savings and investments to interest rates and retirement planning retirement planning This link will open in a new window.
Great for: quickly working out your options.
Top tip: try our investment calculator to see your money’s investment potential.
2. Create your own financial action plan 
Creating an action plan can make your financial life clearer and simpler. It will help you work out what your money is doing for you right now, and how you could make it work harder for you in the future.
Great for: serious peace of mind.
Top tip: whether you’re in your 20s or 60s, find out what you can be doing now to give yourself a head start.
3. Get some financial advice 
If you’re not sure how and where to invest your money, a trusted financial adviser could be a great place to start. With HSBC, financial advice is available if you have £100,000 or more in savings or investments. Fees apply.
Great for: confidence and support.
Top tip: with HSBC, there's no obligation to invest. Once you've received our advice, you don't have to take it. 
Back to top 
What next? 
How to start investing 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
7 simple ways to save for your future 
Improve your financial fitness 
What is a pension - and why you should care?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/how-to-improve-your-financial-future/
########Top of main content 
What is a pension – and why should you care? 
A pension is essentially a long-term savings scheme. It’s a way to invest for your future and help you build your savings for life after work. 
Let’s face it, ‘pension’ is not the kind of word to get you on your feet dancing. It’s not quite up there with ‘winning the lottery’ for excitement levels.
The fact is, though, a pension could be the key to you living the life you want – whether it’s one of basic comfort or all-out adventure.
The sooner you start saving into one, the more options you’re likely to have in years to come. And it’s never too early – or too late – to start.
Here, we cover the basics, including the 3 different types of pensions and what to consider: 
Why do you need a pension?
What is the State Pension?
What is a workplace pension?
What is a private pension?
How do workplace and private pensions work?
What sort of pension is right for you?
When can you get your pension?
What is Pension Credit?
Why do you need a pension? 
If you can, it’s generally a good idea to pay into a pension. Once you stop working or reduce your working hours, you’ll still need an income to live on. The sooner you start thinking about where that income is going to come from, the more likely you’ll have the lifestyle you’d like in retirement.
There are other ways you can save or invest for your future. Yet for most people, pensions are the best option because of:
Tax relief from the government 
Tax relief is when some of your money that would have been paid as tax goes into your pension instead. It basically means the government adds 25% to any contributions you make to your pension pot up to a certain limit. And if you’re a higher rate taxpayer, you can claim even more via your tax return.
Contributions from your employer 
If you have a workplace pension, your employer is obliged to contribute to your pension on your behalf, unless you earn less that £6,240 a year. This is on top of the government tax relief.
A tax-free lump sum 
Up to a quarter of your pension pot can be paid tax-free when you access it. You’ll then pay tax on the income you receive from your pension.
What happens to my pension when I die? 
You can choose who will receive your pension pot when you die. Normally your pension is excluded from your estate and is not liable to inheritance tax. Depending on the age at which you die, however, the recipients of your pension may pay income tax on it.
What is the State Pension? 
The State Pension is an amount of money paid by the government to people who qualify when they reach State Pension age.
You build up your entitlement to the State Pension State Pension This link will open in a new window by making National Insurance contributions during your working life. You can also do this when you’re bringing up children or claiming certain benefits.
How much is the State Pension? 
The amount you get will depend on the National Insurance contributions you’ve made. The government will then pay you your State Pension – a guaranteed income – for the rest of your life.
It’s important to remember that the State Pension alone is unlikely to be enough for a comfortable retirement. However, it could be a useful addition to your retirement income.
Is a State Pension taxable? 
If your total annual income adds up to more than your personal allowance, you’ll pay tax on your pension. The personal allowance for the 2023/2024 tax year is £12,570. You’ll pay tax on the amount that exceeds this limit. 
You’ll no longer make National Insurance contributions when you reach State Pension age.
How do you claim your State Pension? 
You’ll need to claim your State Pension – this isn’t paid automatically. You should receive a letter up to 2 months before you reach State Pension age with details on how you can claim. If you haven’t received a letter, you should still be able to claim the State Pension, if you’re eligible.
What is a workplace pension? 
A workplace pension is a savings scheme you may be enrolled into by your employer.
If you’re a member of a workplace pension scheme, you and your employer will be contributing a proportion of your salary or wages to your pension pot. And the government will also contribute to your pension through tax relief.
Some employers will help you build your retirement savings faster by agreeing to pay more than the minimum into your pension pot, if you agree to increase your contributions too. This is known as ‘contribution matching’.
If you’re lucky enough to be offered matching contributions, it’s well worth trying to pay more into your pension to take advantage of what is effectively ‘free money’. 
There are 2 types of workplace pension schemes: ‘defined contribution’ and ‘defined benefit’, sometimes known as a ‘final salary pension’.
These days, most people are likely to be enrolled into a defined contribution scheme, which means money accumulates depending on how much is paid into it and any investment returns.
Your money will be invested in a fund and managed for you. You’ll have the option to select investment funds and should take into consideration your circumstances, goals and risk appetite. Alternatively, you can opt for the default investment option.
If you’re not automatically enrolled into a workplace scheme, you can ask your employer to join your workplace pension.
What is a private pension? 
Personal pensions, stakeholder pensions and self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) are all types of private – or individual – pensions that you set up with a pension provider yourself.
This could be on top of your workplace pension, or instead of one, if you’re self-employed, for example.
It’s up to you to choose your provider – as well as how often and how much you contribute (within the annual and lifetime limits). As with a workplace pension, the government will contribute to your private pension through tax relief. If you’re not sure which provider or option to choose, you can pay for financial advice.
Wha\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/what-is-a-pension/
########Top of main content 
How to manage your pension pot in retirement 
From taking a tax-free lump sum to drawing an income from your pension, there are different ways you can access your money. 
When you get closer to retirement, your pension provider will send you details of your options, which may include:
take all your pension in one go 
take a number of lump sums from your pension 
draw an income from your pension 
buy an annuity for a guaranteed income 
mix and match your retirement options 
leave your pension pot alone until you need it 
Take all your pension in one go 
One option is to take your entire pension pot in one go as one lump sum. 
Your pension pot is the total amount of savings you and your employer (if employed) have built up over time, to fund your retirement. This could be through private pensions, workplace pensions or both. It doesn’t include your State Pension or any ‘final salary’ pensions you may have.
Usually, the first 25% will be tax-free and the remaining 75% will be taxed as earnings. It allows you to use the money as you wish, but it’s important to take guidance from MoneyHelper or to take professional advice. 
Emptying your pension in one go could mean you pay more in tax and leave you short of money in the future. You should also check the terms and conditions of your pension policy to understand if there are any fees or charges for doing so.
Take a number of lump sums from your pension 
Another option is to take money from your pension pot in several lump sums as and when you need it. Each time you take a lump sum of money, 25% is tax-free and basic rate income tax is deducted from the remaining 75% before you receive it. The money you don’t withdraw from your pension stays invested.
Taking smaller lump sums over time can help you manage your income, while your remaining pension fund has potential to grow. However, there are no guarantees – the value of your pension pot can fall as well as rise. 
Keep in mind – not all providers offer this option, and some may limit how much you can take out. There may also be a fee every time you take a lump sum, so it’s worth checking your policy. 
Draw an income from your pension 
What is pension drawdown? 
Pension drawdown – or Income drawdown – is a way of getting 25% of your pot as a tax-free lump sum and a regular pension income when you retire, while allowing your pension fund to potentially keep on growing. 
You can change the amount you draw from your pension and when its paid. And if you decide income drawdown isn’t right for you, you can take different retirement options. The remaining fund can also be passed onto your spouse or other beneficiaries when you die and there is no inheritance tax to pay on your pension pot. 
Keep in mind – while investments can go up in value, your income isn’t a guaranteed amount, and you could get back less than you invest. There may also be fees to pay. 
Explore: Investing for an income in retirement
Buy an annuity for a guaranteed income 
What is an annuity? 
An annuity is a way to turn part of your retirement savings into a guaranteed income for the rest of your life or a fixed term, as well as take 25% as a tax-free lump sum. 
Some pension providers offer annuities. However, you don’t have to take the annuity they offer – it usually pays to shop around. 
Buying an annuity means you’ll always have a guaranteed level of income no matter how long you live. However, they are less flexible than other options. For example, you can’t choose to take more (or less) income for a period, or switch to another plan or provider. 
Once you buy an annuity – you can’t change your mind, so it’s important to make sure it’s right for your situation.
Mix and match your retirement options 
Depending on the size of your pension pot, you also have the option of choosing more than one retirement option. For example, you could buy an annuity with some of your pension (for a guaranteed income) and leave the rest in case you need a flexible income or cash lump sum. This can help you achieve the retirement lifestyle you’re planning for.
Everyone’s circumstances are different. It’s important to consider each option carefully, including the amount of tax you would pay and any fees or limitations in your policy. 
Leave your pension pot alone until you need it 
Although you can access your pension pot from the age of 55 – or 57 from 2028 – it’s normally best to leave it alone until you retire. You can always leave your money invested. When the time is right, you can look at your retirement options. 
Keeping your money invested will give it a chance to grow, but you’ll need to let your pension provider know if you want to delay your retirement. Again, there are no guarantees, and your pension can go up or down in value. 
Will taking money from your pension affect your benefits? 
Withdrawing money from your pension might be counted as income or capital. This may affect a means-tested benefit, such as Pension Credit, and your eligibility to make a claim in the future. 
Explore: What benefits can you claim?
Do you pay tax on your pension? 
You’ll need to pay tax on your pension income if your total annual income is more than your Personal Allowance. The standard Personal Allowance for the current tax year (6 April 2023 to 5 April 2024) is £12,570.
Your total income could include:
your State Pension 
a private pension (workplace or personal) 
earnings, if employed or self-employed 
taxable benefits 
any other income, such as from investments or savings 
Keep in mind – you can usually take up to 25% of your pension pot tax-free, which doesn’t affect your Personal Allowance. Tax rules can change, and any benefits will depend on your individual circumstances.
For more information, visit GOV.UK: Tax when you get a pension GOV.UK: Tax when you get a pension This link will open in a new window.
Help and support 
If you’re aged 50 or over, you can get free, impartial guidance from Pension Wise.
Pension Wise is a governm\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/how-to-manage-your-pension-pot-in-retirement/
########Top of main content 
How women can boost their retirement savings 
More than half (56%) of working-age women over 35, say they have less than £1,000 in retirement savings, HSBC UK research shows. 
Women on average will retire with 80% less money than men, according to the Chartered Institute of Insurers Chartered Institute of Insurers This link will open in a new window. And 31% of women rely on their partner’s pension as their main source of funding in retirement. 
This is putting many women in a vulnerable position, especially if they separate or divorce – they may find they have less to retire on than expected, according to MoneyHelper according to MoneyHelper This link will open in a new window.
However, there are ways you can fill a pension shortfall.
Here, we share insights from retired and non-retired women – plus 5 things you can do5 things you can do View 5 ways to boost your retirement savings to help you create a financially independent future.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
More than half of women expect to struggle financially 
The study, carried out by YouGov for HSBC1Footnote link 1, surveyed 1,048 retirees and 2,695 non-retirees in England, Scotland and Wales – ranging from ages 18 to 55+.
More than half of women surveyed (52%) expect to struggle financially when they stop working. Younger women (aged 18 to 24) are more optimistic about their retirement, with 72% saying they expect to live comfortably. 
Saving for retirement also takes a back seat when it comes to budgeting, as other things take priority. Almost 1 in 5 had to reduce the amount they set aside for their retirement because of the coronavirus pandemic, and 22% had to do so to support family members.
A third of retirees aren’t living comfortably 
When it comes to women who've already retired, more than 90% said they needed up to £30,000 a year to fund their lifestyle. However, for many women, this is difficult to maintain. 
Almost a third of retirees (29%) told us they didn’t have enough money to make ends meet and 10% of retirees said their retirement savings weren’t enough to cover household bills. Our survey also shows 30% can’t afford to run a car.
Why retirement planning should be on your priority list 
Although the gender pay gap is improving, women generally earn less than men throughout their careers. This limits the amount they can save for retirement. For example, women are more likely to take career breaks or reduce their hours to look after children or elderly parents, according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS) according to the Office for National Statistics (ONS) This link will open in a new window. This affects their pension contributions and retirement income.
Life expectancy in the UK has also increased, with the ONS reporting that women can expect to live into their 80s or beyond women can expect to live into their 80s or beyond This link will open in a new window. So any retirement income may need to stretch further over a longer period of time. This shouldn’t be underestimated. 
The earlier you start saving for your retirement, the more likely you are to:
be financially independent 
have enough money for the lifestyle you want 
be able to cover an unexpected expense after you stop working 
5 ways to boost your retirement savings 
Taking action feels good. Here are some positive changes you can make today for a more comfortable retirement.
1. Maximise your pension contributions 
If you can, now’s the time to add as much as possible to your workplace pension or your retirement savings and make the most of the tax relief from the government. Some employers offer to match your contributions up to a certain limit – if yours does, try to make the most of it. 
You should also check your State Pension forecast check your State Pension forecast This link will open in a new window to see how much it’s worth. If you've taken a career break, you may have gaps in your National Insurance record, which can affect the amount you’ll receive. It may be possible to make voluntary contributions to make up for these. 
Explore: Our retirement calculator Our retirement calculator This link will open in a new window
2. Save more by making small changes 
Take a fresh look at your budget to see where you could free up money. The more you save now, the more you’ll have to retire on. 
Explore: Simple ways to save for your future
3. Think about investing 
Investing is an another way to save for your future. It could give higher long-term growth than leaving your money in a savings account. The key difference is there are no guarantees. The value of investments can go down as well as up, and you may not get back what you invest. 
At HSBC, you can start investing from as little as £50 a month and lower risk options are available (eligibility criteria and fees apply).
4. Make the most of joint allowances 
If you’re married, in a civil partnership or in a stable relationship and have shared assets, you may want to look at both your pensions and savings together. Our retirement calculator retirement calculator This link will open in a new window can help you work out the cost of living together when you’re no longer working.
5. Adjust your retirement plans 
If you’re near retirement age and are concerned you won’t have enough money, think about whether you can delay when you finish work. If that’s an option, let your pension provider know as it may make sense to change where your pension is invested. 
Switching to reduced working hours or ‘semi-retirement’ can also give you more financial security, as wel\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/how-women-can-boost-their-retirement-savings/
########Top of main content 
How to invest for an income in retirement 
When you're retired, it's important to manage your investments carefully. For example, choosing investments that could provide a regular income, as well as capital growth. 
With inflation running high, many people are finding they’re unable to buy as much with their savings as they could before. 
Investing your money over the medium to long term may give you a better chance of beating inflation, as your money has greater potential to increase in value over time. 
Keep in mind that all investments come with some degree of risk, and there’s a chance you might not get back what you put in.
Your retirement investment options 
When you’re near retirement, you should take stock of all your savings and investments. After all, you may have built up money in lots of different places, such as in pensions, ISAs, savings accounts, even company shares. Wherever your money is saved, you’ll have some investment decisions to make.
If you have defined contribution pensions (also called ‘money purchase’ schemes), you’ll be given options on how to access the money from your pension pot. 
If you have a defined benefit pension (also called a ‘final salary pension’), you’re likely to have the option of receiving a tax-free lump sum, as well as a pension. So, you’ll need to consider what to do with the lump sum.
If you’re planning to draw an income from your pension, you’ll need to think carefully about how to invest the remainder of your pension pot. 
If you have money invested in ISAs, you’ll need to consider whether to take a tax-free income, and if they continue to be in the right type of investment.
Here are a few things to think about:
There’s a risk you could run out of income 
It might be tempting to withdraw a large chunk of your retirement savings now – but you’ll need them to last for the rest of your life.
According to the Office of National Statistics (ONS), the average life expectancy for most 55-year-olds today is another 30 years. However, many of us will live longer than this. One in 10 people will reach 100 years old. 
Over many years, inflation will also reduce the value of your savings. 
To try to avoid running out of income, you need to manage your investments carefully. This includes, not only thinking about how to invest your pension pot, but also how much to take out and how often.
Your investment goals are likely to have changed 
During your working life, you may have contributed to pensions designed to provide long-term growth. And it’s still important to invest for the long-term.
But you may now have an additional goal – to invest for an income. This generally means trying to choose investments that could provide a regular income, as well as capital growth. 
Explore income-generating investments 
As the name suggests, income investments – such as bonds, income funds and multi-asset funds – will pay you any income they generate. These differ from accumulation funds, which invest any income generated back into the fund. 
Some types of high-yield funds invest in bonds and company shares that aim to pay high dividends and so will potentially pay you a higher income. But as with all investments, there are no guarantees.
HSBC customers can explore a wide range of income funds via our online Global Investment Centre. You can open an account to browse and research the options available, without having to invest. Only if you invest will account fees apply.
Alternatively, you could speak to a financial adviser to see what options might be right for you.
Consider splitting your investment pot 
For shorter-term income, consider investing some money in very low-risk assets, such as cash or bonds, to help provide the money you’ll need to live from. 
For longer-term income, you may be prepared to invest in higher-risk income funds designed to provide a higher yield. Although, as with all investments, there are no guarantees – your pension pot can still go up or down in value. 
It’s good to have a safety net 
As you know, the stock market can take a tumble due to unforeseen events. That’s why you’ll want to have an accessible emergency fund to fall back on in times of market turbulence. 
Having some savings to live on allows you to leave your investments untouched, giving them more time to potentially recover in value.
Calculate your retirement lifestyle 
Our retirement calculator helps you work out how much you may need to live on. 
Retirement planning support 
We offer a range of guides and tools to help you navigate the world of investing, as well as achieve your ideal retirement lifestyle.
We also understand financial decisions can be difficult to make on your own. Here’s how you can get support:
Pension Wise 
Pension Wise is a government-backed service from MoneyHelper. They offer free, impartial guidance for those aged 50 or over.
Visit MoneyHelper: Welcome to Pension Wise. MoneyHelper: Welcome to Pension Wise. This link will open in a new window
Specialist advice about your pensions and investments 
If you have £100,000 or more in pension savings and investments, our financial advice could help you make the most of your money. We have a specialist team that will help you make the most of your pension pot when you retire. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Explore: The benefits of financial advice
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Investing for retirement 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Living your best life, in later life 
Saving vs investing 
Myths about investing\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/how-to-invest-for-an-income-in-retirement/
########Top of main content 
How to make a will 
Having a will in place lets you decide what happens to your property, money and belongings after you die. 
If you don’t have a will, the law decides who gets what. You may also be unable to make use of inheritance tax exemptions.
Here, we explain:
5 reasons why you should make a will
When to write a will
What happens if you die without a will?
What should you include in a will?
How to write a will
What are the requirements for a valid will?
Who can you get to witness your will?
How much does it cost to make a will?
5 reasons why you should make a will 
Protecting those we care about is something we do naturally during our lifetime. Putting a will in place is a way to carry on protecting them after we’re gone.
Here are our top 5 reasons for making a will:
You get to decide exactly how and when your estate will be shared out – that is, who gets what share of your property, money and possessions. 
You may be able to use a will to help manage the amount of inheritance tax payable on the property, money and any possessions you leave behind. 
You can save your family the additional stress of having to deal with uncertainty at what is already an emotional and difficult time. 
If you have young children, you can choose someone to be their legal guardian to look after them until they’re 18 and ensure there are funds to help. 
You can make clear whether you’d like to be buried or cremated and any other wishes you may have for your funeral. 
When to write a will 
It's tempting to keep putting off writing a will. But it makes sense to do it now while you’re thinking about it. That way, you can enjoy the feel-good factor of getting this task off your to-do list.
Some people choose to write a will after a major life event such as getting married or having children. That way you can rest easy, knowing your loved ones will be looked after in the way you want.
It’s important to update your will update your will This link will open in a new window to make sure it reflects any changes in your life.
What happens if you die without a will? 
If you were to die without a valid will in place, your estate would be shared out under certain rules – known as ‘intestacy rules’. The law decides who should deal with your affairs and who gets to inherit what. This could be different from your own wishes.
While the intestacy rules vary intestacy rules vary This link will open in a new window across England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, these broad principles apply throughout the UK:
if you live with a partner but are not married or in a civil partnership, they might not be legally entitled to anything 
if you’re married or in a civil partnership, your partner might get everything and your children nothing – or your partner might not get everything you think they will 
if you have children or grandchildren, how much they are legally entitled to will vary, depending on where you live in the UK 
if you have children or grandchildren from a previous relationship, they may not receive anything 
if you have no spouse, civil partner or children, your estate would go to your parents – or your siblings if your parents have died 
if you have no close living relatives, it would go to HM Treasury on behalf of the Crown 
The only way to make sure your wishes are met after you die, is to create a legally-binding will. This is true for everyone, but is especially important if you have people who depend on you financially, or if you want to leave things to people outside your family.
What should you include in a will? 
Your assets and possessions 
This includes:
your home 
bank accounts 
savings 
investments 
life insurance policies and defined contribution pensions 
cars 
furniture 
jewellery 
antiques 
Who you’d like to leave money or your possessions to 
These people are known as your beneficiaries. It’s also worth considering what you’d like to happen if any of your beneficiaries were to die before you and whether you want to leave any money to charity. 
Who you’d like to look after your children 
This applies if you have children under the age of 18, or those with specific needs.
Who you’d like to be in charge of organising your estate after you’ve gone 
These people are known as the executors and you can have up to 4. 
How to write a will 
When it comes to actually writing your will, you can:
Use a solicitor 
A specialist solicitor or other regulated professional is likely to know wills, probate and inheritance laws inside out. This is usually the most expensive option. However, if you have complex needs – and particularly if you have children under 18, you’re previously bereaved or a business owner – having a will prepared by a legal professional can give you peace of mind.
Use a will-writing service 
This is usually a cheaper option than using a solicitor and could be suitable if your needs are fairly straightforward. 
Remember, will writers are not normally regulated and may not offer the same level of protection as a legal professional so you might want to look for someone who’s a member of a professional organisation.
Write a will yourself 
You can use either an online DIY will-writing service online DIY will-writing service This link will open in a new window or a ready-made template. However, this should only be considered if you have very simple wishes, such as everything to your spouse. 
What are the requirements for a valid will? 
When writing your will, follow the rules carefully to make sure your will is legal follow the rules carefully to make sure your will is legal This link will open in a new window, otherwise it won’t be valid. Also, make sure family members or friends know where to find it. For a will to be valid, you need to:
be 18 years old or over 
be of sound mind 
make it in writing 
make it voluntarily, without the pressure from another person 
sign it in the presence of 2 people – both must be over 18 
have your 2 witnesses sign it in your presence 
Who ca\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/when-life-goes-on/
########Top of main content 
What is inheritance tax? 
Find out how it’s possible to reduce your inheritance tax – and even pay none at all. 
Your estate includes things like your money, property, investments and belongings. 
Depending on the arrangements you make, inheritance tax could take a sizeable chunk out of your estate, leaving less for your loved ones. But it’s possible to reduce the amount owed – and even pay no inheritance tax at all in some cases. 
What is the inheritance tax-free threshold? 
The good news is you may not need to pay inheritance tax if:
the value of your estate is below the inheritance tax-free threshold of £325,000 
you leave everything above the £325,000 tax-free threshold to your spouse, civil partner, a community sports club or charity 
If you leave your home to your children (including adopted, foster or step-children) or your grandchildren – your tax-free threshold could go up to £500,000.
If your estate is worth less than the tax-free threshold (£325,000) and you’re married or in a civil partnership – any unused allowance on your death can potentially be added to your partner’s tax-free allowance to use on their death.
Keep in mind – the value of any benefits described will depend on your individual circumstances and tax rules could change in the future.
Who pays inheritance tax? 
Inheritance tax is usually paid by the executor of the will. If there isn’t a will, the administrator of the estate will do this. 
It can be paid for with money from the estate, from the sale of any assets, or any money which has been left to cover the bill. 
The executor or administrator can distribute what’s left of the estate once the tax and any debts are paid.
When do you have to pay inheritance tax? 
You’ll have 6 months after a person’s death to pay the inheritance tax. At the end of the 6-month period, if it’s not been paid, HMRC will start charging interest.
You can read more about paying your inheritance tax bill on gov.uk paying your inheritance tax bill on gov.uk This link will open in a new window.
How much is inheritance tax? 
If the total value of your estate is more than your tax-free threshold, then the amount that sits above the threshold will usually be liable for tax at a rate of 40%.
For example, let’s say your estate is worth £550,000 and you want to leave it all to your children. If your tax-free threshold is £325,000, there will be an IHT bill of £90,000 – that’s 40% of £225,000.
To work out the value of your estate:
list all your assets including money in the bank, property, possessions, investments, savings and life insurance 
deduct any debts and liabilities, such as your mortgage 
calculate, and keep a record of, the current value of your estate, including any property valuations 
4 ways to manage your inheritance tax bill 
Reducing your inheritance tax isn’t as simple as just giving your estate away before you die. Any money gifted usually counts as part of your estate and may be taxed – if you die within 7 years of making the gift. Therefore, it’s important to plan how you want to pass on your wealth early. 
If you think you may have to pay inheritance tax, here are some ways you can reduce it:
1. Leave money to charity 
Normally no tax is due on charitable donations. If you leave at least 10% or more of your net estate to charity, you could reduce the rate of inheritance tax from 40% to 36%.
2. Give away up to £3,000 a year in gifts 
The first £3,000 given away each tax year is not subject to inheritance tax when you die. If you don't give away £3,000 in one year, you can carry that allowance forward and give away £6,000 in the next tax year.
3. Make regular gifts out of excess income 
Inheritance tax applies to your assets. However, if you regularly give money from your income, such as your pension or earnings, it’s not included – as long as it leaves you enough income to maintain your lifestyle.
4. Hold onto money in your pension 
Most pensions don’t count as part of your estate for inheritance tax purposes. 
If you’ve got a defined contribution pension, you can nominate anyone – your spouse, children, grandchildren or even friends – to inherit your remaining fund. 
That way, the money could go to your loved ones without having to pay inheritance tax. Although they may pay income tax depending upon how old you are when you die.
Get help and support with inheritance tax 
Estate and tax planning is complicated and much will depend on your individual circumstances. It can be worth getting advice to help you make the right decisions for your situation.
If you have over £100,000 in savings and investments, and hold an HSBC current or savings account, we can offer you a wide range of financial advice – from protecting your family to passing on your wealth. Please note, fees apply.
If you prefer, you can find a specialist estate and tax planning adviser in your area through the MoneyHelper’s Retirement Adviser Directory Retirement Adviser Directory This link will open in a new window.
Planning for what you want to happen after you die is an important task that could save your loved ones thousands of pounds. If you haven’t done so already, it’s important to make a will so your wishes are known. It could make the world of difference to your family’s future and even future generations.
Back to top 
What next? 
How to make a will 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Should you invest in a pension or an ISA? 
Should you consolidate your pensions? 
What to do if you haven’t saved enough for your retirement\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/retirement/how-to-manage-your-inheritance-tax-bill/
########Top of main content 
International benefits 
Explore our value-added services, from tax solutions and relocation support to special offers worldwide. 
Taking care of the details for you 
You might be moving, studying abroad or living in one country and managing your money in another. As an HSBC customer you can benefit from global offers and services.
We've partnered with relocation specialists, tax advisers, education consultants and other top-tier professionals around the world to ensure you're connected to the experts for service you can trust.
Get more than just banking	
International tax solutions 
Navigate the complexities of taxes in different countries around the world with professional services firm EY1Footnote link 1.

Once you register with EY, you'll have access to tax specialists online, via a mobile app, or by phone or email.
Discounted rates on tax filings and returns for all HSBC customers2Footnote link 2. 
Guidance on residence and domicile status, as well as capital gains, pensions, property and other tax matters. 
UK tax guide and FAQs UK tax guide and FAQs This link will open in a new window 
Explore EY tax return services Explore EY tax return services This link will open in a new window 
home&Away privileges 
A unique discount programme for cardholders, home&Away offers valuable benefits around the world.
Save money on dining, travel, shopping, experiences, education, moving and more. 
Find offers by category or location3Footnote link 3, and bookmark your favourites. 
Cash rewards offers at top-tier retailers, luxury hotels and fine dining experiences when you shop abroad. 
Access deals through online banking or the HSBC mobile app. 
Browse home&Away offers Browse home&Away offers This link will open in a new window 
Exclusive accommodation offers 
Moving abroad to a new place can be exciting, but also stressful at the same time. Access exclusive offers from our accommodation partners to help your child settle in to their new life studying abroad.
Enjoy exclusive offers with CBREoffers with CBRE This link will open in a new window on a wide range of student rental properties in London and other key UK cities. 
Qualifying HSBC customers can, subject to availability, get discounts on rents, reduced deposit options, cleaning services, and flexible tenancy arrangements. 
Novel Student offers student accommodationNovel Student offers student accommodation This link will open in a new window that provides a sense of belonging with a focus on service, design, community and wellbeing. 
HSBC customers can receive booking incentives, early arrival discounts, free airport transfers and flexible rent payments. 
Get started by opening an HSBC bank account 
Apply from within the UK or EU 
Already in the UK or EU and want to open a UK bank account? Find one that's suitable for you.
View UK bank accounts View UK bank accounts to view HSBC accounts 
Not yet in the UK or EU? 
No problem. You may still be able to open an account from where you are.
Open UK account Open UK account to open a UK HSBC account from outside the UK 
Open an HSBC account outside the UK 
Based in the UK but want to open an account outside the UK?
You can apply online before you leave the UK.
You'll need to be 18 or over, currently living in the UK and have an HSBC UK current account.
Find out more
You might be interested in 
Living in the UK 
Get a smooth start in your new location, with our support for your international banking needs. 
How to move to the UK 
From housing and schools to healthcare and tax, get an overview of some of the things to think about before relocating. 
How does banking work in the UK? 
Find out the basics of how UK banking works so you can make the most of your money when you arrive. 
Explore more 
Global Money 
Convert, send or spend multiple currencies around the world, with no HSBC fees.
Other non-HSBC charges may apply.
Mortgages for non-UK residents 
Find out if you could apply for a UK mortgage if you’re a non-UK resident or a foreign national living in the UK for less than 12 months. 
Studying in the UK 
We can help you look after your finances while getting on with your education. 
Additional information 
Formerly known as Ernst & Young. Please note that HSBC customers are under no obligation to use EY for tax advice.
We partner with EY to provide professional services to the following jurisdictions: Australia, Canada, China, Expat offshore (Jersey), Hong Kong, India, Mexico, Singapore, UK and the US.
Tax rules vary in each country and region. It's your responsibility to disclose your income to the authorities in countries or regions where you have tax obligations.
We don't accept any responsibility for tax advice provided by EY and any information acted on by you will be at your own risk.
Pricing in accordance to the complexity of your taxes and to your status as an HSBC customer. 
Home&Away offers vary by the card's country of issuance and travel destination and are subject to change. 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/international-benefits/
########Top of main content 
Apply for a UK account 
Apply for an account from outside the UK 
New to the UK 
Looking to open a UK bank account as a non-resident? Apply for an HSBC new-to-UK bank account from outside the UK and take full control of your finances before you arrive. 
Banking in the UK 
Who can open a bank account in the UK? 
You can apply for an HSBC Bank Account if you:
are 18 or older
are happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK)
can provide ID and proof of address (other eligibility criteria may also apply)
How do I open a bank account in the UK? 
The easiest way to open a bank account is to apply online. If you need support, you can also visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application. 
If you have a smartphone or tablet, please bring it with you if you're visiting a branch in person.
What do I need to open a bank account in the UK? 
To open an account, you'll need:
your current employment, income, and tax details
proof of ID, such as your passport or driving license
proof of address, such as utility or phone bill 
For more information, visit our page on what you need to open a UK bank accountwhat you need to open a UK bank account This link will open in a new window.
Can I set up a UK bank account from abroad? 
You can set up an HSBC UK bank account from many locations abroad. Once you've chosen your preferred account, use the apply button to find out if you might be eligible.
Why open an HSBC account in the UK
Convenient ways to bank
24/7 access to your account using mobile, online, automated phone banking and a debit card.
No monthly account fee
We don't charge you a fee just for keeping your account with us.
Enjoy discounts and offers
HSBC debit card holders can access offers with a number of retailers with our home&Away offers programme.
Bank wherever you are
Manage all your HSBC accounts around the world from anywhere with our mobile app and online banking.
Choose the new-to-UK bank account that's right for you 
HSBC Premier Account 
HSBC’s premier banking service, recognised globally and created for your constantly changing world.
Plus, if you have HSBC accounts in other countries or regions, you can manage them all online and make fee-free transfers between them in minutes.
ATM withdrawal limit
GBP1,000 per day
Fee for using your card outside the UK
2.75%

Eligibility
To be eligible, you’ll need to meet and maintain one of the following criteria:
be an existing HSBC Premier customer in another country; or
have savings or investments of at least GBP50,000 with HSBC UK (within 6 months of opening your account); or
have an individual annual income of at least GBP75,000 and one of the following with HSBC UK: a mortgage, an investment, life insurance or a protection product (to be held within 6 months of account opening)
You may be required to provide ID and proof of address if needed.
You may not be eligible for some account features if you remain resident outside the UK.
Apply for an HSBC Premier Account 
HSBC Advance Account 
Get everything you need from everyday banking and lots more.
Plus, if you have HSBC accounts in other countries or regions, you can manage them all online and make fee-free transfers between them in minutes.

ATM withdrawal limit
GBP500 per day
Fee for using your card outside the UK
2.75% plus a 2% fee (minimum GBP1.75, maximum GBP5) when withdrawing cash
Eligibility
You may be required to provide ID and proof of address if needed.
You may not be eligible for some account features if you remain resident outside the UK.
Apply for an HSBC Advance Account 
HSBC Bank Account 
Easily manage your everyday finances and activate your life in the UK.
HSBC customers with an HSBC debit card can access home&Away offers with a number of retailers.

ATM withdrawal limit
GBP300 per day
Fee for using your card outside the UK
2.75% plus a 2% fee (minimum GBP1.75, maximum GBP5) when withdrawing cash
Eligibility
You may be required to provide ID and proof of address if needed.
You may not be eligible for some account features if you remain resident outside the UK.
Apply for an HSBC Bank Account 
Moving to the UK 
You might also be interested in 
Living in the UK 
Explore our resources to support you as you start your new life in the UK. 
Moving to the UK Guide 
Get an overview of some of the things to think about before you arrive in the UK, to help make the move smoother. 
How does banking work in the UK? 
Find out the basics of how UK banking works so you can make the most of your money when you arrive. 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/apply-for-a-uk-account/
########Top of main content 
Mortgages for non-UK residents/new to UK 
How to apply if you’re a non-UK resident or a foreign national living in the UK for less than 12 months 
Looking for an investment property, or to move to the UK? Find out if you could apply for a mortgage in the UK.
Which countries or regions can you apply from? 
If you're a resident in one of the following countries or regions, you may be able to apply for a mortgage in the UK: 
Australia
Guernsey
Hong Kong
Isle of Man
Jersey
Singapore
Switzerland
United Arab Emirates (UAE)
United States of America (USA)
Please note: If you're not yet a UK resident and you're looking to apply for a residential mortgage, you'll need to complete your application with an advisor. But, this may not always be possible in all of the locations listed above.
Who can apply? 
Residential mortgage 
If you're a non-UK resident or a foreign national living in the UK for less than 12 months, to apply for a residential mortgage in the UK, you should check that:
you're a resident in one of the countries/regions listed above
you can speak proficient English
you earn a basic annual income of at least £75,000 – or if you're a UAE national, your annual income is at least 1 million AED (or equivalent in an approved currency)
your loan-to-value (LTV) will be a maximum of 75%
Buy-to-let mortgage 
If you're a non-UK resident or a foreign national living in the UK for less than 12 months, to apply for a buy-to-let mortgage in the UK, you should check that:
you're a resident in one of the countries/regions listed above
you can speak proficient English
you earn a basic annual income of at least £50,000 (or £75,000 if you're self-employed) – or if you're a UAE national, your annual income is at least 1 million AED (or equivalent in an approved currency)
you have a deposit of at least 25% of the property value or 35% for mortgages above £1 million
What's a Loan-to-value (LTV)? 
Your loan-to-value represents the percentage of the property price you want to borrow. For example, a £100,000 property with an £75,000 mortgage would have a 75% LTV. The maximum LTV we'll lend non-UK residents is 75%, but this also depends on your individual situation.
How to apply 
If you're a resident in one of the above countries or regions and you'd like to apply for a mortgage in the UK, you won't be able to apply online, instead just give us a call on:
+44 800 169 6333
Residential rates for non-UK residents/new to UK1		
Take a look at our latest rates, if you're interested in applying for a residential mortgage in the UK.
Fixed-rate mortgages 
A fixed-rate mortgage means that your payments will stay the same until the end date of the fixed-rate period, even if interest rates change. An Early Repayment Charge may apply during the fixed rate period.
60% LTV 
70% LTV 
75% LTV 
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage Initial interest rate Followed by a Variable Rate, currently Initial interest rate period Overall cost for comparison (APRC) Booking fee Annual overpayment allowance Cashback Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
5.34%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.9%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
2 Year Fixed Standard 
5.04%
fixed
	6.99%
	2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
6.9%
APRC
	£999
	10%
	£0	£ 5,000,000 
	
3 Year Fixed Fee Saver
5.29%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	6.7%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
3 Year Fixed Standard 
4.99%
fixed
	6.99%
	3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	
6.7%
APRC
	£999
	10%
	£0	£ 5,000,000	
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.84%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.2%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
5 Year Fixed Standard
4.69%
fixed
	6.99%
	5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
6.2%
APRC
	£999
	10%
	£0	£ 5,000,000 
	
5 Year Fixed Premier Standard 4.66%
fixed	6.99%	5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29	6.3%
APRC	£1499	10%	£0	£ 5,000,000	
10 Year Fixed Fee Saver
5.29%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
10 Years fixed rate until 30.04.34
	5.9%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
10 Year Fixed Standard 
5.17%
fixed
	6.99%
	10 Years fixed rate until 30.04.34
	
5.9%
APRC
	£999
	10%
	£0	£ 5,000,000	
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
5.34%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.9%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
	
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Standard	
Initial interest rate 
5.04%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 
6.9%
APRC
	
Booking fee £999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) £ 5,000,000 
	
	
Mortgage 3 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
5.29%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.7%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
	
Mortgage 3 Year Fixed Standard	
Initial interest rate 
4.99%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 
6.7%
APRC
	
Booking fee £999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) £ 5,000,000	
	
Mortgage 5 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.84%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.2%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amoun\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/non-uk-residents/
########Top of main content 
Credit cards for international customers 
Moving to a place where you have no credit history? HSBC can help. 
Just arrived in the UK and need a credit card? 
Your credit history doesn't need to stay behind when you move to a new country. We can help you to use it in your new home. 
How we can help 
Keep your credit history wherever you go 
If you're new here, you won't have a UK credit history yet. But, with your permission, we can access your credit history in select countries, to help you apply for an HSBC UK credit card. Credit is subject to status.
Make the most of your HSBC relationship 
If you’re an HSBC Premier customer, anywhere in the world, we'll make sure your history with us doesn’t get left behind when you move. That way, when it comes to applying for a credit card, your relationship with HSBC will help to get you a limit that's appropriate for you.
Ready to start your UK credit journey? Here are your options 
Not an HSBC UK customer? 
If you’re not yet an HSBC customer, and you live in the UK, you can apply for a Balance Transfer or Purchase Plus credit card. The maximum limit you could be offered is £1,000. Higher limits are available to HSBC current account customers.
Compare cards and apply Compare cards and apply compare the Balance Transfer and Purchase Plus credit cards 
Become an HSBC UK customer 
Customers who open an HSBC current account first can then choose from a range of HSBC credit cards.
Not yet in the UK? No problem, you can still open a UK current account from outside the UK or EU.
Already in the UK or EU? Explore our current accounts.
Already an HSBC UK customer? 
If you are already an HSBC UK customer and you live in the UK, you can apply for a card right away.
Explore our cards Explore our cards explore our credit cards 
Frequently asked questions 
What is international credit history? 
International credit history is your credit information from a credit bureau in a country or region other than the UK. HSBC partners with Nova Credit, a company that provides credit providers with instant access to international credit history in a uniform format. 
How is HSBC able to access my international credit information? 
If you choose to use your international credit history in support of your HSBC UK credit card application, we’ll work with Nova Credit and/or its affiliates to access a translated version of your credit history. You will be asked to give your consent for this information to be shared with us, for the sole purpose of your credit card application. 
Can international credit history from all countries be used? 
Currently, you can choose to share your credit history from any of the following countries:
Australia
Brazil
Canada
India
Mexico
Nigeria
Philippines
Spain
Switzerland
US
Kenya
Dominican Republic
Is it free to use my international credit history to support my credit card application? 
Yes. It's free to use this service to support your HSBC UK credit card application. 
Please refer to our full list of Frequently Asked Questions for further guidance.
You might be interested in 
How do credit cards work? 
Read tips on how to choose a card to suit your needs - and how to get the most from one. 
Living in the UK 
Get a smooth start in your new location, with our support for your international banking needs.
How does banking work in the UK? 
Find out the basics of how UK banking works so you can make the most of your money when you arrive. 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/credit-cards/
########Top of main content 
Living in the UK 
Make the most of your new life in the UK with support from our international services 
Bank every day as if you never left home 
Moving abroad takes planning, but it doesn't have to be complicated. Once you've got an HSBC current account in the UK and have at least one HSBC account in your home country or region, we'll support your international banking needs, so you can get off to a smooth start.
Bank the way you want 
With an HSBC current account, you can manage your money 24/7 online and in mobile banking, set up bill payments and make contactless payments with a debit card. 
Send money around the world 
Easily send money to over 150 destinations outside the UK online, in a branch or over the phone. Limits and fees apply.11 view footnote 1 
Enjoy banking privileges worldwide 
Get everything you need to manage your money across borders. Plus, if you successfully apply for HSBC Premier, you and your family can enjoy the same privileges in the UK and overseas. 
Enjoy exclusive offers 
With some of our accounts, you can access worldwide offers and discounts on everything from dining, travel, shopping and more. 
Making the most of living in the UK
How does banking work in the UK?
Get an overview of some of the basics of banking in the UK to help make it easier to manage your money.
International banking terms
Here's a list of some key terms and what they mean to help you when sending money outside the UK.
Moving to the UK guide
Get an overview of some of the things to think about before you arrive in the UK, to help make the move smoother.
Sending money outside the UK
Discover our tips to make sending money to loved ones outside the UK simple and easy.
Start with an HSBC UK account 
If you've just arrived in the UK, compare all our current accounts to find the right one for you. Find out what you'll need to get started and apply online. Financial and other eligibility criteria apply.
Explore all current accounts 
Or, check out some of our most popular accounts.
HSBC Advance Bank Account
The current account that gives you more, with retail offers and access to our best savings rate.
HSBC Premier
Unlock the benefits of international banking for you and your family when you open a Premier account.
HSBC Bank Account
A straightforward current account, with everything you need to stay on top of your money.
Open an account outside the UK 
To get the most of our international services, we can help you open another account in your home country or region - so you can easily manage your money worldwide.
How to open an account overseas 
Not arrived in the UK yet? 
If you're about to move to the UK and want to open an HSBC UK account before you arrive, visit our International servicesvisit our International services This link will open in a new window.
You might also be interested in
Receiving money outside the UK
Discover the things you need to know before receiving a payment.
HSBC home insurance
Protect your home with the cover that’s right for you.
HSBC Currency Account
Send, store and receive up to 14 foreign currencies easily with our multi-currency holding account.
The small print 
1. Send up to £50,000 (or the currency equivalent) online or on mobile, and up to £10,000 (or the currency equivalent) over the phone (£10 million if you're a Premier customer).
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/living-in-the-uk/
########Top of main content 
Global services for Non-Resident Indians 
Stay connected to India from the UK with a range of accounts and services from HSBC India 
Make banking across borders easier with our products and services for Non-Resident Indians. 
If you've moved to the UK from India to live or work, HSBC India's Non-Resident Indian service makes banking across borders easier. As a global bank, we're well placed to support your international banking needs. Whether you're supporting loved ones or keeping savings in India, an HSBC India account can help you manage your financial commitments back home. 
Enjoy exchange rate certainty when transferring from GBP to INR 
Have peace of mind knowing that your transaction is safe and secure 
Send money to India easily 24/7 online. Find out more about international payments. Fees may apply. 
Discover HSBC India NRI accounts 
As a Non-Resident Indian, HSBC India can help you open a fixed deposit or savings account, designed to make managing your money in India simple while you're in the UK.
Savings accounts
With a savings account, you can:
manage your savings in India stress-free from anywhere in the world
deposit income you get from rent, dividends or a pension in HSBC India
To apply, you'll need to maintain an Average Quarterly Balance (AQB), which will vary depending on your circumstances. Our International Banking Centre colleagues will let you know how much you'll need before you apply.
Fixed term deposit accounts
With a fixed term deposit account, you can:
enjoy peace of mind with a fixed interest rate
earn interest on your balance
choose a flexible term
Eligibility criteria applies. Our International Banking Centre colleagues will let you know the full criteria before you apply. 
Things to know before you apply		
The products and services are offered by HSBC India and the information above has been approved by HSBC UK Bank plc for HSBC India. These products and services are not regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK and as such the protections afforded by the UK regulatory system, including the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), will not apply.
As part of processing your request, any information you provide in the form will be shared with HSBC India. For more information, read the full data privacy policydata privacy policy This link will open in a new window for HSBC India. 
Ready to open an HSBC India NRI account? 
To apply for a sole, joint or minor account you must be 18 years old or over, and have proof of Indian Origin such as one of the following:
you're a person of Indian Origin (PIO), or
you have an Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI), or
you have an Indian passport with a valid visa, work permit or residency card
Get started Get started This link will open in a new window 
Frequently Asked Questions 
As an NRI, which accounts can I open in India? 
If you're an Indian national in the UK, you can open the following types of bank accounts with HSBC India:
Savings account
Fixed term deposit account
How does sending money to a Non-Resident account help? 
With a Non-Resident Account in India, you can deposit your money and:
send unlimited amounts to India
make unlimited transfers to and from India
get a local debit card
Who can I contact if I need support with my existing HSBC India NRI account? 
If you’re in the UK, you can call our International Specialist Centre on 08000489157. Lines are open 24/7.
What other ways can I apply for an HSBC India NRI account? 
If you'd prefer to speak with us about opening an account, you can leave your detailsleave your details This link will open in a new window and we'll get back to you.
As part of processing your request, any information you provide will be shared with HSBC India. For more information, read the full data privacy policy for HSBC India.
You might also be interested in
Sending money outside the UK
Find out how to make quick and secure international payments. Fees may apply.
HSBC Global View and Transfers
Move money quickly between your globally linked HSBC accounts.
HSBC Premier
Our premium bank account with no monthly fee provides access to a range of specialists, benefits and services for Premier customers. Financial and other eligibility criteria apply.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/nri-services/
########Top of main content 
Studying in the UK 
Studying abroad isn’t easy but you can settle in faster with HSBC International 
Supporting your international education 
Studying abroad is an exciting time, and there's a lot to think about. If you've just arrived in the UK or are about to, an HSBC UK account can help you manage your money while you focus on studying. And we can help you open an account back in your home country if you haven't already, so you can get more from our international services.
Bank the way you want 
With an HSBC current account, you can manage your money 24/7, set up bill payments, and make transfers easily. 
Send money to friends and family 
Easily send and receive money to over 150 destinations outside the UK online, in a branch or over the phone. 
Enjoy HSBC benefits worldwide 
As an HSBC Premier or Advance customer with an account in the UK and back home, you can manage and move money between your accounts from one place online. 
Your very own debit card 
Make contactless payments, pay online and withdraw cash from ATMs throughout the UK.11 anchors to small print 1 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
We teamed up with Virat Kohli to surprise Indian students in the UK 
When you move abroad for study, the opportunities can bring immense joy and excitement. But it can also be challenging as you navigate the emotional journey of moving to a new country without the comforts of home around you. At HSBC, we believe that studying abroad shouldn’t mean sacrificing your sense of belonging and that’s why we teamed up with Virat Kohli to surprise Indian students in the UK with a game of gully cricket – something that is uniquely Indian and a lovely reminder of home, and also a wonderful way to create new connections and a new sense of belonging with other students in the UK. Watch the video to see their reaction!
Making the most of studying in the UK
Funding a degree in the UK
Learn about the ways you can fund an education overseas and how best to manage your money across borders.
Setting up your finances abroad
Find out the top things to consider when managing your money once you arrive in your new country.
Moving to the UK guide
Get an overview of some of the things to think about before you arrive in the UK, to help make the move smoother.
Top 5 finance tips for students studying abroad
This link will open in a new window 
Manage your money overseas with our helpful checklist.
Get started 
Whether you're new to the UK or not arrived just yet, you can open an HSBC Bank Account for international students. Eligibility criteria apply.
Manage your money 24/7, set up bill payments and get your very own debit card with an HSBC Bank Account for International Students. Eligibility criteria apply.
Find out more Find out more about HSBC Bank Account for International Students 
Compare all our accounts that could suit your needs while you're in the UK.
Explore all accounts 
Need an account back home? 
See how we can help you open an account outside the UK and make the most of our international services once you've arrived.
How to open an account overseas 
You might also be interested in
Living in the UK
Explore our resources to support you as you start your new life in the UK.
Receiving money from outside the UK
Discover the things you need to know before receiving a payment.
The small print 
Some cash machine owners in the UK may charge you for withdrawals. This will be shown on screen with an option to cancel the withdrawal if you want.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/studying-in-the-uk/
########Top of main content 
What are IBAN, BIC and SWIFT codes? 
An IBAN and BIC or SWIFT codes are used to make international payments faster, safer and cheaper. 
IBAN stands for International Bank Account Number. It's your account number written in a standard global format. 
Most banks have their own BIC or SWIFT code. BIC stands for Business Identifier Code, although they’re also referred to as a Bank Identifier Code or a Bank International Code.
You might also sometimes see them called a SWIFT code because they use the SWIFT system (Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication This link will open in a new window). But they're the same thing.
When you'll need your IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code 
Your IBAN helps banks to identify accounts held anywhere in the world so they can process international payments automatically.
You'll need to know your own IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code if you're receiving money from outside the UK.
Not every country uses IBANs, but if you're sending money outside the UK, you'll generally need the IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code of the person you're sending money to.
How to get your IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code 
There are 4 ways to find out your IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code if you're with HSBC.
1. The quickest and easiest is by logging on to our mobile banking app or online banking. Just follow these steps:
From the main accounts screen, choose the account you want 
Go to ‘Statements’, then select any recent statement 
You'll see your IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code on the right side of the statement above the transaction list 
2. You can also find your IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code on your paper statements.
3. If you have an HSBC Currency Account, you can find your IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code by logging on to online banking and looking in the ‘Details’ section above your Currency Account transactions.
4. If you’ve recently opened a current account, you’ll also find your IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code in your welcome letter.
Did you find this article useful? 
Yes 
No 
Please tell us your reason
Too complicated 
Too long 
Not what I was expecting 
Not enough information 
Poor layout 
Back to top 
What next? 
Learn more about international banking jargon 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Sending money to the UK 
International payment tips 
Common reasons for sending money outside the UK\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/what-is-an-iban-a-bic-and-a-swift-code/
########Top of main content 
Should you use a card or travel money outside the UK? 
However you choose to spend your money when you're outside the UK, there are pros and cons. 
Whether you opt to use a debit or credit card or take travel money, there's not necessarily a right or wrong answer. On this page, we explain some of the benefits of each in certain situations.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
EN Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Using your debit or credit card 
Spending 
A wide range of shops and restaurants accept debit and credit cards, so they're convenient. You can also use your debit card to take money out of cash machines while you’re on your trip.
Security 
If your card is lost or stolen, you should have the same level of protection when travelling outside the UK as when you’re at home. Before travelling check how you can report any issues with your bank. It may also be a good idea to save your bank's contact details in your mobile phone for easy access.
If you’re with HSBC and have mobile or online banking, you can freeze your cards instantly if they're lost or stolen.
Easy tracking 
If you like to keep a close eye on your spending and have mobile or online banking, you can log on to keep track of your finances while you're away. This way you can act instantly on any issues you see and also manage things like bills and Direct Debits.
Disadvantages of using a card outside the UK 
You may have to pay a fee when buying things on a debit or credit cards, as well as when withdrawing from cash machines. Charges vary according to the bank you're with and the type of account you hold. So, look closely at what they may be before you go.
If you’re using your card in shops, bars or restaurants outside the UK, you have a couple of options:
paying in pounds will give you more certainty on how much things cost – but this can sometimes work out more expensive 
if you choose to pay in local currency, you’ll get the most up-to-date exchange rates and avoid dynamic currency conversion fees 
Travel card to use outside the UK 
Our new HSBC Global Money Account might suit your needs.11 view footnote 1 It comes with a debit card and there are no HSBC fees for using your card to make payments or withdraw cash outside the UK, However, other non-HSBC fees may apply. 
If you use your Global Money debit card in shops, bars or restaurants and choose to pay in local currency, it will automatically give the most up-to-date exchange rates and avoid dynamic currency conversion fees.
Using travel money 
Convenience 
You won't need to worry about finding a cash machine when you arrive, or when you’re heading to any of the local shops.
Easier budgeting 
If you're sticking to a fixed budget while you're away, taking travel money makes it easier by limiting what you have available to spend. Once you've exchanged the amount you want, there are no further fees to pay for using your money outside the UK.
Security 
Carrying a lot of money around with you can be very risky as it’s difficult to track if it’s lost or stolen. If you're doing this, think about using a safe deposit box. That way, you can carry smaller amounts with you day to day. If you have travel insurance, it may also be worth looking at how much cash you're covered for carrying.
Also, if you've only got cash and no other spending options, you risk running out of money before your trip is over.
What about a mix of both? 
It may be a good idea to use a mix of cards and travel money while you’re outside the UK. That way you’ll have cash on hand when you arrive, but also the security of a card while you’re out and about. But always make sure you're aware of any fees and charges for using your card outside the UK.
Explore: Managing your money before, during and after travel
1 Global Money is only available in the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You’ll need to have an eligible HSBC current account.
Did you find this article useful? 
Yes 
No 
Please tell us your reason
Too complicated 
Too long 
Not what I was expecting 
Not enough information 
Poor layout 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Using your HSBC cards outside the UK 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Should you pay in local currency outside the UK? 
Understanding travel money - what you need to know 
Using your card outside the UK - fees explained\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/using-a-debit-card-abroad-vs-local-currency/
########Top of main content 
Using your card outside the UK: fees and charges explained 
There are fees and charges to be aware of when using your debit or credit card on international trips. 
Taking your cards with you when you travel outside the UK means you won’t have to rely on just cash.
But on this page we’ll help you understand the fees and charges you might come across.
What are the charges for using your cards outside the UK? 
You may have to pay a fee to buy things or withdraw cash from cash machines in a foreign currency. These are the 3 charges you need to know about:
1. Fee 
There's usually a fee to convert the currency if you use your card outside the UK:
in shops 
in bars and restaurants 
to withdraw money from a cash machine 
If you pay in the local currency, there may be a fee added to the cost. The fee will be a percentage of the value of what you're buying. 
With the HSBC Global Money Account11 view footnote 1, you can order a debit card and there are no HSBC fees for using it to make payments outside the UK. Other non-HSBC fees may apply. 
For other HSBC accounts, there’s a fee of 2.75% for debit cards and 2.99% for credit cards. The total amount is converted to pounds sterling when the transaction is debited to your account.
If you choose to convert to pounds sterling at the point of sale, the conversion rate is set by the merchant. Fees can often be high so in most cases it’s cheaper to pay in the local currency. Then either Visa or Mastercard will do the currency conversion at their current rate. You should always have the right to select which currency to pay in.
If you choose to pay with a Global Money debit card, it will automatically give the most up-to-date exchange rates and avoid dynamic currency conversion fees.
2. Cash fee 
If you use your card to withdraw money from a cash machine, there's often a separate fee on top of the one for converting currency.
There are no HSBC fees for using a Global Money card to withdraw cash outside the UK, although other non-HSBC fees may apply.
There's no cash fee either for using your debit card to withdraw money from a cash machine outside the UK if you’re an HSBC Premier customer.
For other HSBC accounts there's a cash fee of 2% (minimum £1.75, maximum £5) on withdrawals using a debit card. With a credit card the cash fee is 2.99% (minimum £3).
You can find out more about the pros and cons of using your card or travel money outside the UK.
3. Interest charges 
If you use your credit card to pay for things outside the UK, or withdraw cash, interest charges will apply in the same way they do at home.
Do fees appear on your statement? 
Your bank statement will show details of your international transactions, including a breakdown of any charges.
It should include:
the exchange rate 
the cost of what you've paid for when converted to pounds sterling 
any fee for converting currency 
the cash fee if you’ve withdrawn money with your card 
1 Global Money is only available in the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You’ll need to have an eligible HSBC current account. This excludes our Basic Bank Account, Amanah, Appointee and MyAccount.
Back to top 
What next? 
Using your card outside the UK 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Managing your money before, during and after travel 
Understanding travel money: what you need to know 
Travel guide: Spain\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/using-your-card-abroad-fees-and-charges-explained/
########Top of main content 
What you need to know about sending money to the UK 
If you have family or friends living in the UK, you may need to send them money from time to time. Here are some of the key things to know.
There may be some terms you’re not familiar with when sending money internationally, such as IBAN and BIC. It can be useful to find our more about these before you make an international transfer to help make the process a bit easier.
What bank details are needed to transfer money? 
If you’re transferring money to someone, you’ll need your account details, and:
the full name and address of the person you’re sending the money to (known as the beneficiary) 
their bank code – normally the BIC (Business Identifier Code) 
their IBAN (International Bank Account Number) or account number 
the country or region of their bank 
amount of the payment 
Find out more about what IBAN and BIC codes are and how to find yours.
How much money can you send to the UK? 
This will differ depending on your bank and your daily limit. Check with your bank to see how much you can send.
What exchange rate is used? 
The exchange rate will change depending on the day and time your payment is made. It’ll also depend on the bank, or company, you use to send the money. Before completing the transfer your bank should be able to tell you about the exchange rate used. 
Explore: How do exchange rates work?
How long does an international money transfer take? 
This will differ depending on your bank. For HSBC customers, payments within the European Economic Area (EEA) will normally be credited the next working day and all other payments will normally take up to 4 working days. This is subject to currency cut-off time and further checks. From time to time, we may need to carry out extra security checks to validate the payments.
How much does it cost to send money to the UK? 
There may be a cost for sending, or receiving the money. This will depend on your bank and the bank you’re transferring the money to.
It’s a good idea to find this out before you transfer your money to someone in the UK.
Already have an HSBC account in another country or region? 
If you have an eligible HSBC account in another country or region, you may be able to use our Global View and Global Transfers service to send money to the UK. There’s no transfer fee and the real-time exchange rates mean you make the transfer when it suits you.
Find out which currencies you can use with Global View and Global Transfers.
Back to top 
What next? 
What is a currency account? 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How does banking work in the UK? 
Funding a degree in the UK 
Checklist for moving outside the UK\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/sending-money-to-uk/
########Top of main content 
Spain travel guide 
Whether you’re heading to Madrid or Mallorca, check out our essential guide before travelling to Spain. 
Spending your money in Spain 
The currency used in Spain is the euro.
Find out how to order HSBC Travel Money ahead of your trip. 
You shouldn’t have any problem finding a cash machine in larger Spanish towns and cities. In rural areas they may be more scarce.
You can also use your debit or credit card to pay for things in Spain but there may be fees to be aware of.
Find out our current rates for using your card in the European Economic Area (EEA), which includes Spain.
If you have an HSBC Global Money Account, you can order a debit card and there are no HSBC fees for using it to make payments in Spain. Other non-HSBC fees may apply. 
Global Money is only available in the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You’ll need to have an eligible HSBC current account. This excludes our Basic Bank Account, Amanah, Appointee and MyAccount.
Explore: Should you use a card or travel money outside the UK?
Spain essentials 
Main languages: the official language is Spanish (also known as Castilian). But there are several regional languages, like Catalan. Of course, English is widely understood and spoken
Time: mainland Spain is GMT+1 (GMT+2 from the end of March to the end of October)
Electricity: standard voltage is similar to the UK. You'll need European-style plugs with 2 round pins
International dialling code: +34
Internet domain: .es
Emergency services: 112 
Getting around in Spain 
Traffic drives on the right. If you have a UK licence, you can drive in Spain for periods up to 6 months without needing an international driving permit international driving permit This link will open in a new window - this includes the Balearic and Canary Isles. With most car hire companies, you’ll need a debit or credit card as a deposit.
Taxis are available at ranks or you can hail one on the street. There are also ride-hailing apps in Spain.
There's a good network of buses and trains throughout Spain if you want to use public transport. Local buses often don’t run on Sundays, however. Spain's rail network is called RENFE and there's an English version of its website if you want to find out more about its commuter trains or high-speed services. Madrid also has its own metro system.
Useful Spanish phrases 
Hello - Hola
Goodbye – Adiós
Do you speak English? - ¿Habla inglés?
Could you help me? - ¿Me podría ayudar?
I’m sorry - Lo siento
Thank you – Gracias
Yes – Si
No - No
Keeping in touch in Spain 
The main mobile phone networks are Movistar, Vodafone, Orange and Yoigo. 4G and 5G coverage is widespread, but you'll need to check with your network whether there are any roaming charges. There’s also free WiFi in many cafés and shops. 
There's an English online edition of Spain's main national daily newspaper El País. Some regional newspapers also cater for English speakers.
Healthcare in Spain 
If you're unlucky enough to fall ill while in Spain, pharmacies are easy to find – watch out for the flashing green cross they have outside. You'll find you can buy some medicines over the counter that you’d need a prescription for in the UK.
Make sure you get a Global Health Insurance Care (GHIC) before you travel.
Back to top 
What next? 
Manage your money before, during and after travel 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Should you pay in local currency? 
Should you use a card or travel money? 
How do exchange rates work?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/travel-guide-spain/
########Top of main content 
Sending money outside the UK: top tips 
Whether you’re sending money to a loved one or you’re paying for something outside the UK, there are a few things to consider. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
EN Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Here are some tips to help make sure it’s a smooth process.
How do international payments work? 
You can send money outside the UK via:
a bank 
a building society 
a high street firm 
a foreign exchange broker 
What do I need to send money outside the UK? 
You'll need the bank code and account number of the person or business you’re sending money to. Find out about what an IBAN is and a BIC (or SWIFT) code.
You might need an account to transfer money outside the UK. There may also be fees for sending or receiving the money, so it's a good idea to check this beforehand. 
You can transfer your money using: 
bank transfer 
debit card 
credit card 
Other services may offer different methods for transferring money outside the UK. Take some time to find the right one to suit you. For example, if you need to send money regularly, you may want to look for a service that allows you to do reccurring payments – like a bank transfer.
Explore: Reasons for sending money outside the UK
How long do international payments take? 
International payments can take longer than other types of payment. The time they take can vary depending on the currency. 
For example, if you're sending money with HSBC to the EEA in euros or sterling, it should reach the account the next working day. 
Payments outside the EEA can take up to 4 working days or longer.
Find out more about how international payments work with HSBC.
Is it safe to send money outside the UK? 
It pays to be careful when sending money outside the UK. Be sure to take some time to find the right international money transfer service. That way, you can feel confident your money is secure and will arrive safely. 
Always check that the company is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). You can check a company's status on the Financial Services Register Financial Services Register This link will open in a new window.
If you’re sending someone an international payment through HSBC online banking for the first time, we’ll ask you to authorise your payment using your Secure Key. This checks it's really you and increases your protection against possible fraud.
How to send money between global accounts 
If you have bank accounts in different countries, you may need to transfer money between them. This could be a regular occurrence or a one-off, but it’s worth noting that there may be a fee for doing this with some providers.
HSBC Global View and Global Transfers let you transfer money between globally linked accounts without a fee. You’ll also be able to see your eligible international accounts in one place and set up recurring payments, if needed.
Using the HSBC Global Money Account 
With the HSBC Global Money Account, you can order a debit card and there are no HSBC fees for using it to make payments outside the UK. Other non-HSBC fees may apply. 
Global Money is only available in the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You’ll need to have an eligible HSBC current account. This excludes our Basic Bank Account, Amanah, Appointee and MyAccount.
Tips for sending money outside the UK 
Make sure the service offers the coverage you need 

If you know you're going to be sending money outside the UK to several different countries, it may be convenient to use one service that covers all of them.
For example, HSBC's international payments service enables you to send money to more than 150 countries.
You can now also use the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app to send money to existing payees.
Check exchange rate information and fees 

Exchange rates can fluctuate quickly, so check the information you’re shown on websites is up-to-date. It’s important you input the exact amount you're looking to send as this may affect the rate you're offered.
It’s also a good idea to check if there are any fees or charges for sending, or receiving, the money. Fees may vary between money transfer services and for the amount you’re wanting to send.
Explore: How do exchange rates work
Learn the jargon 

There may be some terms you’re not familiar with when it comes to sending money outside the UK, such as IBAN and BIC or SWIFT code. Getting to know these terms and what they mean may help make sending money outside the UK easier. 
Be organised around regular and future payments 

If you're going to send money outside the UK regularly to the same person, you could consider setting up a recurring payment. 
You may also be able to set up future payments so you don’t forget to make a one-off payment you know is coming up.
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC international payments 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Sending money outside the UK: key words and definitions 
Setting up your finances outside the UK 
Understanding travel money\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/tips-when-transferring-money-overseas/
########Top of main content 
Investing for beginners 
You don’t need to be an expert (or wealthy) to start investing. It could be easier than you might think. 
Research on behalf of HSBC, shows over a third (36%) of the UK population is already investing. But many feel they don’t know enough to get started.
To help you, we look at:
What is investing?
How much do you need to start investing?
What are the common ways to invest? 
How do you choose what to invest in?
Are there any fees or costs?
How do you actually start investing?
Takeaway investing tips for beginners
What is investing? 
Investing is when you set money aside for the future and put it to work for you. When you invest, you’re buying into something you believe will increase in value over time.
Remember – there are no guarantees, which means you could get back less than you invest. Your money could potentially grow too of course – that’s why people do it – but there is that risk you could lose money.
The key thing is to make sure you have some money saved up before you start investing. We recommend having an emergency fund to cover 3 to 6 months of living expenses.
An emergency fund can give you peace of mind that you’d have some money available for the unexpected, without needing to dip into your investment fund.
The value of investments can, and do, jump around – this is normal. Ideally, you should plan to set your money aside for at least 5 years to give it a better chance to ride out any short-term fluctuations. You can access the money if you need to.
How much do you need to start investing? 
If you have an HSBC current account or eligible savings account, you can start investing with a lump sum of £50.
Starting small could be a good way to dip your toe in the water. Then you can watch what happens to your investment – and invest more later if you want to.
Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
What are the common ways to invest? 
Just over one in three Brits (36%) are already investing, with most (44%) putting their money into stocks and shares, followed by funds (25%), bonds (20%) and property (19%).
There’s no shortage of options of what you can invest in, but there’s also no need to be overwhelmed.
To help you get started, let’s focus on two common ways to invest: 
shares 
funds 
What are shares? 
When you buy shares, you’re effectively buying a small stake in a company.
Companies sell shares to raise money, which they then use to expand their business. Investors (known as shareholders) are then free to buy and sell some (or all) of those shares on the stock market at any time.
If the company performs well (or is expected to), demand for its shares will generally increase – pushing its share price up.
If the company does badly (or is expected to), its share price will generally drop. Interest rates and the wider economy can also have an impact on share prices.
As a shareholder, the value of your investment rises and falls with the share price. While the money you invest has the potential to grow, it could also fall in value, so you may get back less than you invest.
What is a fund? 
When you invest in funds, you’re buying a mix of investments, so you’re not putting all your eggs into one basket.
If some of the investments in the fund perform badly over a certain period, others may perform well. Helping to spread your risk is known as diversification. 
There are many types of fund on offer, but an especially diverse option is a ready-made portfolio. This is a collection of investments, typically made up of shares, government bonds, property as well as other funds – often from different regions around the world.
HSBC’s ready-made portfolios are managed on your behalf at a level of risk you feel comfortable with. They are run by a professional fund manager who chooses which global investments to hold, and monitors them on your behalf. 
What about a stocks & shares ISA? 
A stocks & shares ISA is not a type of investment. It’s an account you can choose to hold your funds or shares in to make them tax efficient.
This means you won’t pay any UK income tax or Capital Gains Tax on the returns you receive.
As with all things tax-related, the value of the benefits to you will depend on your circumstances, and tax rules can change in the future.
Explore: What is a stocks & shares ISA?
How do you choose what to invest in? 
Good question. We can’t give you advice in this guide, but we can show you how our survey respondents chose their investments. 
The most common reason selected for choosing stocks and shares is that investors expect good returns (34%).
Meanwhile, funds were more equally balanced with 34% of investors seeing these as offering good returns and 30% being 'safe', with the same being true of property (39% good return, 35% 'safe').
Those Brits who’ve chosen to invest in jewellery and alternatives (wine, art, whisky etc), were the most likely to say they’ve chosen to do so because they have expertise in that area (25%).
Like with all investments, there are no guarantees and the value of investments – even those investors see as 'safe' – can go up or down. It’s important that you can afford to invest and choose a level of risk you feel comfortable with.
Are there any fees or costs? 
If you choose to invest, any costs will be clearly signposted by the investment provider in the relevant product documents before you apply. It’s important to read these carefully before you invest – and to factor the fees in, as they will impact your overall returns.
Here are some common fees you may come across:
Trading or transaction fee 
If you're investing in shares, you normally pay a fee every time you buy or sell them.
Account or platform fee 
The cost a provider will charge to look after your funds or shares, giving you access to the tools and resources on their investment platform.
Ongoing or annual management charge 
If you're investing in funds, this can be a useful comparison tool as it gives you a breakdown of the charges that are deducte\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/investing-for-beginners/
########Top of main content 
How to set long-term financial goals 
Whether you’re looking to buy your own place, retire comfortably, or take a trip of a lifetime – setting long-term financial goals can help you succeed. 
But when budgets are stretched and bills need paying, putting money aside for the future is easier said than done – and is often the last thing on our minds. 
Our long-term ambitions are often ignored as we manage our day-to-day finances. 
However, having something to work towards can help you stay focused, become more mindful of your spending, and enable you to reach your goals. 
Here we look at:
What are long-term financial goals?
The benefits of having long-term financial goals
How to set and achieve long-term financial goals
What are long-term financial goals? 
Long-term financial goals are those ‘big-picture’ costs that will take 5 or more years to achieve. For example, one day, you may want to:
put down a deposit on a new home 
take a trip of a lifetime 
fund your child’s education 
take a career break 
become debt-free 
retire early 
start your own business 
These goals typically involve more money than short-term goals (like building an emergency fund or saving for a holiday). But with the right tools and knowledge, they can be achieved – and be life-changing for yourself and others.
The benefits of having long-term financial goals 
Setting a long-term financial goal could:
help you become more mindful about how you spend your money 
help you stay focused 
provide a sense of direction and purpose 
How to set and achieve long-term financial goals 
It’s never too early to set up a long-term plan – the earlier you set them up in life, the more manageable and achievable they can be.
1. Visualise your goal 
Whatever your financial goal is, make sure you’re passionate about it. It needs to be something that motivates and inspires you. 
For example, if it’s saving for a house deposit, visualise what it might be like to own your own home. Where would you live? How would you decorate it? 
Perhaps you’re wanting to pay off your student loan or get out of debt. Imagine what it might feel like to take that weight off your shoulders. 
If you’re hoping to retire early, visualise yourself living a more flexible lifestyle and be doing something you’ve always wanted to do. Our retirement checklist shows you some mini goals you may want to consider, depending on your age, to get to where you want to be. 
2. Make your goal specific and measurable 
What do you want to achieve? How much do you need? When do you need it by? 
When creating a goal, it helps to narrow it down and provide as much detail as possible, so you can track your progress and celebrate the small wins. 
Our savings goal calculator can give you an idea of a realistic timeframe to work towards.
The biggest long-term financial goal for most people is saving enough money to retire. Our retirement calculator retirement calculator This link will open in a new window helps you work out your projected retirement income and whether you’re on target to achieve the retirement lifestyle you’d like.
3. Build the amount into your budget 
A budget is a plan for what’s coming in and what’s going out. You’re telling your money where to go, instead of wondering where it went – helping you prioritise spending. Use our budget planning tool to help.
If you have the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, you’ll find money management tools to help you budget, grow your money and achieve your financial goals. For example, our Balance After Bills feature shows you how much you could have left for the month ahead, once scheduled bills (standing orders and Direct Debits) are taken into account. 
If you feel you're spending too much, look at what you can change. These everyday spending hacks can help you save money – providing extra funds to put towards your future. 
There will be days when you go over budget – but that’s fine. Having a plan of action can help you deal with setbacks and bring you closer to your long-term goals.
4. Consider investing for the long-term 
Once you have money to set aside, a savings account is generally seen as a safe way to save. However, interest rates can go up and down. When they’re low, the interest you earn on your savings might be less than the rate of inflation. This means the money you save buys you less over time. 
If you can leave your money untouched for at least 5 years, investing is another option – especially for long-term goals. 
Investments – such as funds, shares, bonds and other assets – could have greater potential to increase in value over time than money in a savings account. However, no investments are without risk, and you could get back less than you put in. 
Market fluctuations are normal – having an emergency fund to fall back on, before starting a longer-term plan, can help reduce the need to dip into your investments.
Investment goals 
Discover a smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the latest version of the app. Eligibility criteria and fees apply. 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about investing 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
When is a good time to invest? 
What is financial planning? 
Your financial action plan\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/how-to-set-long-term-financial-goals/
########Top of main content 
Is investing worth the risk? 
With investing, there’s always a risk that you may not get back what you invest. But do the higher potential returns make it worth it? 
If there’s a secret to investing, it’s simply getting to grips with the risks – and the potential rewards – involved. You can calculate how much risk you’re prepared to take and choose suitable investments to help you achieve your goals.
If you’re new to investing, that might sound easier said than done. But it doesn’t need to be hard. 
Here, we explain what we mean by risk and how it affects your investments.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What is investment risk? 
Broadly speaking, investment risk is the possibility of losing the money you invest. There’s also a risk that you might not earn what you expect to.
The outcome of your investment is uncertain for a number of reasons:
the markets could do something unexpected 
a firm whose shares you own could hit the headlines for the wrong reasons 
currency fluctuations could impact the value of your investment 
It’s human nature to crave certainty. So why take a risk with your money? In a nutshell, it could give your money the chance to beat inflation, as investments have potential to increase in value over time.
Risk and return are closely linked 
You can’t have one without the other. The lower the risk, the lower the potential returns. The higher the risk, the higher the potential returns. Although, what you can expect and what you actually get may differ.
If you’d rather prioritise protecting the value of your money, you’ll have to sacrifice the prospect of greater returns. Finding the balance between the highest possible return and lowest possible risk will depend on your attitude to risk and how long you can invest for.
Investment calculator 
Enter how much you'd like to invest and choose your risk level – to see how the value of an investment could change under different market conditions. 
Can you tell how risky an investment’s likely to be? 
When you invest in funds, you’re investing in a ready-made basket of investments which contain a range of investment types – also known as assets classes.
The 4 main investment asset types that funds can invest in are:
cash/money markets 
fixed interest 
property 
shares/equities 
Cash is typically considered the lowest-risk asset type, and shares/equities the highest risk.
Funds are assigned a risk profile by the fund manager, which gives you a good indication of how bumpy the road is likely to be. Funds with the lowest risk profile are the least volatile and funds with the highest risk are the most volatile.
If you’re a cautious investor, you may only want to take a small amount of risk to try and achieve a modest and relatively stable return. If so, funds with a low risk profile could be right for you.
If you’re comfortable taking a larger amount of risk with your money, you might want to go for funds that have a higher volatility to give you the potential for higher returns. If so, funds with a higher risk profile could be more suitable for you.
Can investment risk be managed? 
While investment risk can’t be eliminated, it can be managed.
You could spread your risk by putting your money in a range of investments. That way, if one loses money, it could be balanced out by your other investments – known as diversification. This can be an effective method of investment risk management.
The easiest way to diversify is to buy into a multi-asset fund, which contains many investments (rather than just one) so they can be less risky than buying individual shares in a single company.
Keep in mind – some funds are rated higher risk than others.
How do multi-asset funds work? 
When a fund manager puts together a multi-asset fund, they hand-pick a mix of asset types to cater to a specific appetite for risk. Lower risk funds will typically be made up of cash and fixed interest assets. Higher risk funds will often feature more shares/equities.
Multi-asset funds are professionally managed to ensure that they maintain their risk level. This can make them less risky than investing directly in shares, whose performance is often at the mercy of unexpected events. 
If you’re considering investing in a diversified portfolio, HSBC's Global Strategy Portfolios are multi-asset funds that cater to different appetites for risk. Whether you’re cautious or adventurous with your money, we have a portfolio that may interest you. 
To get started, simply choose whether you’d like a sustainable portfolio or a regular portfolio. Eligibility criteria apply. 
How does time affect risk? 
The level of risk can reduce over time 
A longer time period is typically associated with lower market volatility and risk. 
Investments should be seen as a medium to long term commitment. This means, you should be prepared to hold them for at least 5 years to give your money the best chance to grow.
Ideally, you should have an emergency fund – between 3 and 6 months’ worth of living expenses –before you start investing. That way, if the markets have a wobble, you won’t have to sell before your investment has chance to recover.
The more time you have, the more risk you could afford 
The time you have to reach your goals – known as your ‘time horizon’ – can also affect the level of risk you could take. The longer your time horizon, the more risk you can afford as you’ll have more time to recover from any market downturns.
When you’re young, for example, you can afford to place your retirement savings in a more aggressive portfolio. As you get closer to \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/is-investing-worth-the-risk/
########Top of main content 
Understanding market volatility 
We see the words in many financial headlines, but what is market volatility? And should we be worried about it? 
Put simply, volatility is the measure of how quickly the markets move and how much this causes the value of your investments to jump around. 
When we see the kinds of change that have happened across the world in the last couple of years, it’s not surprising that markets have indeed jumped around. Values have risen and fallen sharply in short periods of time. 
No matter what your experience of investing, volatility can be daunting – yet it’s a natural part of investing.
Here we explore market volatility and share some principles that can help you handle these periods of uncertainty.
What causes market volatility? 
Market movements are driven by what experts across the world think will happen next. These analysts estimate the impact on markets, and we see market fluctuations resulting from these estimates and associated decisions.
Increased volatility often happens during periods of economic stress, like a recession. It can be caused by economic or policy factors, including interest rate changes and inflation.
Political instability can also cause market volatility – as can global events, like a pandemic or a war. 
Ways to navigate periods of volatility 
As an investor, you can’t avoid market volatility. But keeping these 3 principles in mind could make the ride feel less bumpy:
1. Keep calm and see the bigger picture 
Short-term volatility doesn't always affect the long-term growth of your investment. So, it may help to focus on those long-term goals during volatile periods.
This chart shows that over the past 20 years, markets have recovered in the longer term – even from the biggest turmoil. Riding these short-term fluctuations could bring positive returns when you look further ahead. Recovery may be quick but can sometimes take longer, so you should really be looking to keep your money invested for a longer time-frame.
Returns from $100 invested in global stocks over the last 2 decades
Source: Refinitiv Datastream, as of 1 October 2022; rebased to 100. Global Equities: MSCI World Index. For illustrative purposes only. 
Always remember that investing comes with risk so you may not get back what you put in. And past performance isn’t a reliable indicator of future performance.
2. Consider staying invested if you can 
When markets get rocky, it’s tempting to sell to avoid further losses. But it can help to think of any falls in value as ‘paper losses’. The financial loss only takes effect if you sell your investments. 
That’s why we recommend you keep an emergency fund of 3 to 6 months of living costs. That way you can handle any unexpected costs without having to sell your investments during a downturn. 
If you can afford to stay invested, you’ll give your investments more time to potentially recover and grow. 
3. Stay diversified to help weather the storm 
Not all types of investments are affected the same during periods of volatility. 
By combining different types of investments, you could potentially lower your overall risk of loss. That’s because a lower return in one type of asset, like equities, may typically be compensated by a gain in another type, such as bonds. This is called diversification.
Investing and volatility will always go hand in hand. But keeping these principles in mind could help to lessen the impact if and when the markets drop.
Back to top Back to top of page 
What next? 
Is now a good time to invest? 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Myths about investing 
Is investing worth the risk? 
Investing for beginners\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/understanding-market-volatility/
########Top of main content 
Saving for your children's future 
Saving for children involves putting money aside for their future. Opening a children’s savings account is one way you can help give your child a head start. 
Here, we look at:
Reasons to start saving for your child
What is a children's savings account? 
Are children's savings accounts tax free?
How does inflation affect your savings?
Should you start investing for your child?
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
EN Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Reasons to start saving for your child 
Wouldn’t it be great if you could help pay for driving lessons and a first car? Or perhaps your dream is to help your child get on the property ladder?
It really doesn’t matter what you’re saving for. What counts is, by putting some money aside on a regular basis, you’re giving them more options. And if they’re still in nappies, now could be the perfect time to start saving for the big milestones. 
The sooner you start saving, the sooner you start earning interest on the interest you earn. This is known as compound interest – something which effectively turns time into money.
With compound interest, it’s all about having time on your side. And time is a huge advantage when it comes to children’s savings – the longer your children’s savings are in place, the bigger they will get.
We’re not talking about saving half your income each month. Just putting aside as much as you can and making regular contributions can make a big difference. Small amounts soon add up.
Here’s an example for you:
If you made an initial deposit of £1,000 and added £100 a month, after 21 years your net contributions would be £26,200.
When you add in a return of, let’s say, 3.0% – compounded monthly, this means you’d earn £10,721.54 in interest, taking your total savings to £36,921.54.
What is a children's savings account? 
A children's savings account is a type of savings account that can only be opened by, or on behalf of, a child under the age of 18.
You might want to open one children’s account for your child to put their pocket money into, and another for you to pay in any larger amounts. They usually pay a slightly better interest rate compared to adult savings accounts.
Keep in mind – if the account is in your child's name, it's your child's money. 
Many accounts allow the adult to stay in control of the money until the child turns 16 (or 18, if it’s a Child Trust Fund or Junior ISA). Once they reach this age, the money is theirs to do with whatever they want. 
A Child Trust Fund is a savings account for children born between 1 September 2002 and 2 January 2011. They’ve since been replaced by Junior ISAs. HSBC don’t currently offer Junior ISAs, but you can find out more about them at MoneyHelper MoneyHelper This link will open in a new window.
Are children's savings accounts tax free? 
You might not realise it, but children have tax allowances too. So, it makes sense to take advantage of them if you can. 
There’s usually no tax to pay on children’s accounts. That’s because the interest earned is usually below the child’s tax allowances. However, special rules apply for money given by parents.
If you give your child money that earns more than £100 in interest in a tax year, you may have to pay tax on all the interest. This depends on your personal circumstances, including any tax allowances you may have available. Gifts from grandparents, aunts, uncles, and friends don’t count towards this £100 limit.
An alternative would be to open a tax-free junior ISA. You can save up to £9,000 for each child in the current tax year. When they turn 18, the account can be turned into an adult cash ISA or stocks & shares ISA. 
With both types of ISA, they’ll never have to pay income tax. And with a stocks & shares ISA, they won’t be liable for UK capital gains tax either on the income or growth. This could be ideal if the plan is for your child to have a lot of savings by their 18th birthday.
As with all things tax-related – the value of the benefits to you will depend on your circumstances, and tax rules could change in the future. To find out more about tax on children’s savings, visit GOV.UK GOV.UK This link will open in a new window.
How does inflation affect your savings? 
When considering your long-term savings options, there’s a hidden risk you need to be aware of – inflation. Inflation is when money loses value as things become more expensive over time.
As the months and years roll by, inflation will reduce the total value of your children’s cash savings because you’ll be able to buy less with the money.
Let's say inflation averages 5% over the next few years. What costs you £1,000 today would cost you £1,276.28 in 5 years’ time.
If you put £1,000 in a child’s savings account today paying 3% interest, you’d end up with £1,161.62 over the same period. So, you'd effectively lose £114.66 in real purchasing power.
Should you start investing for your child? 
As you have time on your side, investing could be a great way to potentially beat inflation. Of course, the thing to remember about investing is there are no guarantees, and you may not get back what you put in.
Find out more on our new to investing page. And to see how much you might need to invest to cover the cost of your children's education, try our children's education calculator.
Explore: Is now a good time to invest?
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about investing 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Saving vs investing 
What's a stocks & shares ISA? 
What is sustainable investing\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/saving-for-children/
########Top of main content 
Online fund platform 
Research, buy, sell and switch investments online with our Global Investment Centre. 
Research, buy, sell and switch investments 
Our Global Investment Centre is our online fund platform that's designed for more confident investors, as you can make your own decisions.
Explore our entire range of funds from HSBC and other leading fund managers. And, use a handy research tool to compare up to 5 funds.
New to investing? Our ready-made portfolios could be more suitable if you're getting to grips with investing. 
Be sure to also have some money saved for emergencies – ideally 3-6 months of living expenses. That way you won't need to sell your investment to cover any unexpected costs. Remember, the value of investments can go up and down, so you may not get back what you invest. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
What's a fund? 
A fund is a mix of investments that a fund manager will look after for you. A fund can be made up of a different types of assets such as equities, property, government bonds and cash – or it can be made up of other funds.
As funds spread your money across a wide range of investments, they could help to spread your risk. That’s because if one or more of the investments goes down in value, it could potentially be balanced out by others gaining in value.
Lots of people choose to invest in funds as they don’t have to choose individual investments themselves.

Investment goals 
Discover a smart way to invest and track your long-term goals in the app. Investing carries risk – so you could get back less than you invest. 
Explore investment goals 
Eligibility criteria and fees apply. 
How our Global Investment Centre could help you 
Choose from a wide range of funds 
There's a wide range of funds including index trackersindex trackers This link will open in a new window, from us and other leading fund managers for you to choose from. 
Make an informed choice 
Compare factors such as the performance, rating and fees of up to 5 funds at a time to help you decide.
Start investing with £50 
Invest in a fund today with £50, then set up regular investments from £50 a month.
Easy access to your money 
You should aim to invest for at least 5 years. But your money isn't locked away – you can sell your investments and the money will usually be in your account within 4 business days.
Explore the available funds 
You can choose from a wide range of open-ended investment companies (OEICs) and unit trust funds, including index trackers. As well as HSBC funds, we also offer funds from other leading fund managers. 
See which funds we offer and view their costs and charges. 
Browse all funds 
Who can apply? 
To access our Global Investment Centre, you'll need to open a stocks and shares ISA or a general investment account.

You can open one if:
you have an HSBC current accountcurrent account This link will open in a new window or savings accountsavings account This link will open in a new window (excluding the Online Bonus Saver and Fixed-rate Saver)
you're a UK resident with a permanent UK residential address
you're at least 18 years old
you’re not a US national/citizen/resident (eg a US passport holder)
What are the fees? 
There are no fees to open a Global Investment Centre account.
There's just an annual account fee of 0.25% of whatever you invest. It's calculated using the average daily value of the assets within your account in the previous quarter and it's payable quarterly. 
Fund managers also apply an annual management charge and there are other expenses which are deducted directly from the fund.
Before buying any fund, you’ll see a breakdown of all of the charges in the relevant Costs and Charges PDF.
Useful documents 
Key features of the general investment account and stocks & shares ISA (PDF, 316KB) Key features of the general investment account and stocks & shares ISA (PDF, 316KB) Download 
HSBC Global Investment Centre Terms and Conditions (PDF, 334 kB) HSBC Global Investment Centre Terms and Conditions (PDF, 334 kB) Download 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme Information (PDF, 106 KB) Financial Services Compensation Scheme Information (PDF, 106 KB) Download 
Need support applying? 
If you think you might need support before making an investment decision, we can help you get specialist investment support.
How to use our online fund platform 
To use the Global Investment Centre follow these 3 steps.
1. Open an investment account 
First, you'll need to open a stocks & shares ISA or a general investment account to hold your investments.
What's a stocks & shares ISA or a general investment account (GIA)? 
Stocks & shares ISA 
A stocks & shares ISA (individual savings account) is an account that you can open for your investments. Opening an ISA is a tax-efficient way to build your portfolio, because you can invest up to £20,000 without paying any UK income tax or capital gains tax on any gains.
You can open a stocks & shares ISA if:
you don’t already have a stocks & shares ISA for the current tax year (you can still have a cash ISA or another type of ISA)
you’ve not exceeded your £20,000 ISA limit for the current tax year
Keep in mind, tax rules can also change and any benefits will depend on your individual circumstances.
General investment account 
Or, you can choose to open a general investment account (GIA) if:
you already have another stocks & shares ISA this tax year, or
you have exceeded the overall £20,000 ISA limit
this is your preferred option
2. Search and compare funds 
Once you can access Global Investment Centre you can research and compare the different investment options.
3. Buy your investment 
When you're ready to invest, you can either make an investment from £50, or set up regular investments from £50 a month.
Apply for your investment account 
Already an HSBC customer? 
Log on to your online banking to apply for a Global Investment Centre account. 
Once you've successfully applied, your account will be ready to use\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/products/global-investment-centre/
########Top of main content 
Inflation's eating your savings – what can you do about it? 
If you’re a diligent saver, you want to feel financially protected against an uncertain future. 
Yet despite recent interest rates rises, high inflation continues to create economic uncertainty.
So, what is inflation, and what can you do to reduce its impact on your money?
What is inflation? 
Inflation is the increase in the price of something over time. For example, you may have noticed your weekly shop has gone up and it costs you more to fill your car.
In the 12 months to July 2023, inflation rose by 6.4%11 view footnote 1. That means something that cost £1 a year earlier may now cost you £1.06 or more. When you add it up, it amounts to a significant rise in everyday living costs.
The rise in inflation has been driven by a number of things – from increased demand for goods and services as coronavirus restrictions were lifted, to global events contributing to supply issues and the higher price of oil and gas.
How does inflation affect your savings? 
Since 2022, interest rates have been rising on savings accounts. However, inflation remains relatively high. This means your savings are still at risk of losing value in ‘real’ terms as you’ll be able to buy less with your money.
Let's say inflation averages 6% over the next year. That means what costs you £1,000 today would cost you £1,060 in 2024.
If you put £1,000 in an easy-access savings account today paying 4% interest, you’ll earn £1,040 interest over the same period. So, you'd effectively lose £20.
So, what can you do to reduce its impact on your money?
Wait while interest rates are rising 
Interest rates are set by the Bank of England (BoE) to help steady the economy and control inflation. 2023 has seen interest rates go up, as the BoE tries to bring inflation back down to a target of 2%.
While this may have a positive effect on your savings, it also means the cost of borrowing on credit cards, loans or mortgages may go up. It’s a delicate balancing act to keep the economy growing and inflation under control.
Explore: Why do interest rates change?
For savers, the benefits of any interest rate rises could be marginal. When inflation is taken into account, it may take a long time for rising interest rates to offer any real ‘bang for your buck’ on savings accounts.
Consider investing some of your cash 
Investing your money over the medium to long term may give it a greater potential to grow. That’s because investments – such as funds, shares, bonds and other assets – could have greater potential to increase in value over time than money in a savings account.
Unlike savings, investments have no guarantees. So, keep in mind there’s a risk you might get back less than you invest. And whereas savings can be easy access, we recommend you only invest money you’re not going to need for at least 5 years. That way, your investment could recover from any short-term dips in the market.
Investment calculator 
To see how much your money could be worth in years to come, try our investment calculator. 
If you’re considering investing, it may be easier than you think. Funds, for example, can be an effective way to spread your risk. Funds are ready-made baskets of investments that save you having to choose individual investments, such as shares in specific companies.
You simply choose the level of risk you’re comfortable with and set the amount you want to invest each month. The fund will then be managed for you. With HSBC, you can invest from £50. Fees and eligibility criteria apply.
Keep in mind that any investment can fall in value, as well as rise, and you may get back less than you invest.
Just be prepared for the value of your investment to jump around. And remember that any investment can fall in value, as well as rise – so you may get back less than you invest. 
Explore: Understanding market volatility
Is investing right for you? 
It’s good to have an emergency fund of between 3 to 6 months' expenses saved and easily accessible before you start investing. This way, if you get hit with any unexpected costs, you won’t have to dip into your investment to cover them.
If you’re trying to decide between saving and investing, think about what you’re saving for. Is it something specific, like a house deposit, a new car, or a holiday?
If you think you’ll need the money within 5 years, a savings account may still be the best option because you’ll know that – inflation aside – the value of your money can’t fall. 
If you don’t think you’ll need to access your money for at least 5 years – whether you’re saving for something specific like children’s school fees, retirement, or just to have more options with your finances – it might be worth considering investing.
Key takeaway 
If you already have an emergency fund and are comfortable taking some risk, investing your money may give it a better chance of growing over the long term.
This article was last updated: 06/09/2023, 06:49 
1. Source: Consumer price inflation, UK - Office for National Statistics Consumer price inflation, UK - Office for National Statistics This link will open in a new window
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Investing for beginners 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Saving vs investing 
What's a stocks & shares ISA? 
Is now a good time to invest?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/inflation-is-eating-your-savings/
########Top of main content 
What is the FTSE 100? 
Whether you’re an experienced investor or just getting started, you’ve probably heard of the FTSE 100. 
Also known as the Footsie, its full name is the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
But what actually is it? It’s an index of the largest 100 UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange. Many of these companies are well-known names such as BP, HSBC and Tesco, while others will probably be less familiar. 
In this guide, we look at the different ways you can invest in the index and some alternatives to consider.
Buying FTSE 100 shares 
Perhaps the most direct way to invest in the FTSE 100 is to buy individual shares of FTSE 100 companies via a share dealing platform.
If the shares you buy go up in value, you’ll make a profit when you sell them. Shareholders also usually receive regular dividends, linked to the profits made by the company. 
But remember, shares can go up and down in value, so you could get back less than you invest.
To increase your chances of making profits, consider investing in shares from multiple companies in different industries. This type of ’diversification’ can also spread your risk. 
FTSE 100 companies are typically stable thanks to their size and reputation – but they’re not immune from downturns. So it’s always wise to spread your risk. 
You can buy FTSE 100 shares using InvestDirect, our share deaing platform. Fees and eligibility criteria apply.
Buying FTSE 100 tracker funds 
Another way to buy into the FTSE 100 is to invest in an index tracker fund. Tracker funds aim to track the performance of a particular index, such as the FTSE 100. 
The benefit of these funds is that you’re not putting all your eggs in one basket. If some FTSE 100 companies perform badly, this could be offset by others in the fund performing better.
While index tracker funds usually have an ongoing charge, they’re typically low because they don’t cost much to run. There’s no fund manager being paid to research and select certain companies.
Investing in a tracker fund means you could save money in dealing fees. You’re only making 1 trade but getting exposure to lots of companies – as opposed to buying lots of individual shares and paying a dealing fee each time.
You could diversify by investing in the FTSE 250 (this tracks the UK’s 250 largest companies) – or by investing in funds which track European or US Indexes.
You can view a selection of index-tracking funds in our online fund platform, Global Investement Centre. Fees and eligibility criteria apply.
What are exchange-traded funds? 
FTSE 100 exchange-traded funds (ETFs) offer a way of investing in a range of bonds or shares in a single package. As the name suggests, they're traded on the stock market. That means, unlike other funds, you can buy or sell them at any time during the day rather than just once a day.
When you buy and sell an ETF, you'll notice that it has 2 prices. The ‘ask’ price is the price you pay to buy the ETF. The ‘bid’ price is the price you get when you sell the ETF. The difference between the bid and the ask price is called the 'spread'.
ETFs are generally cheaper to run than regular funds, and so often come with a low ongoing fee. Because they’re traded on the stock market, you may need to pay a dealing fee when you buy or sell an ETF.
You can buy FTSE 100 ETFs using our InvestDirect share dealing platform. Fees and eligibility criteria apply.
How much does it cost to invest in a FTSE 100 fund? 
If you’re investing in a FTSE 100 tracker fund the costs are relatively low, depending on the fund and platform you choose. You’ll typically pay:
a platform charge or account fee (with HSBC’s Global Investment Centre account, the annual account fee is 0.25%) 
an ongoing fund charge (fund providers typically charge between 0.05% and 0.2%) 
If you invest in FTSE 100 shares or an ETF, you would usually pay:
an account fee (with HSBC’s InvestDirect account, the account fee is £10.50 per quarter) 
a fixed fee for each trade you make (with us, the dealing fee is £10.50 per trade) 
What’s the difference between an index tracker and a managed fund? 
Index trackers are ‘passive’ funds. They simply aim to track the performance of an index. They often do this by investing in all the companies that make up the index. The higher a company’s current market valuation, the larger its weighting in the fund. 
The main benefit of tracker funds is they generally have low fees. The main drawback is you’re reliant on the performance of that index. So if there is a downturn in the index, the value of your investment would see a similar drop.
Managed funds are run by a professional fund manager. They pick investments from various sectors or regions with the aim of outperforming the market average. This requires expertise and ongoing research. That’s why the ongoing charges for managed funds are generally higher than those of index trackers.
One of the benefits of managed funds is they can give you more exposure to global markets through increased diversification. So, if the value of the FTSE were to drop, this could potentially be offset by other global investments held within the fund that are performing better.
If you’re new to investing, you might consider one of our global ready-made portfolios. Simply choose between our regular portfolios or our sustainable portfolios, then select the level of risk that’s right for you. Our investment experts will take care of the rest. As with all investments, fees and eligibility criteria apply.
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore our Global Investment Centre 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Understanding market volatility 
New to investing? 
Investment calculator\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/what-is-the-ftse-100/
########Top of main content 
When is a good time to invest? 
If you're planning to invest for the long-term, it may not matter what the markets are doing today. 
Here are a few things to consider when deciding whether to invest.
It’s about time, not timing 
There’s a misconception that investing is about trying to time the market. This means buying when prices are low and selling when they’re high. But no-one can know for sure what the markets are going to do. 
Rather than trying to time the market, it’s better to focus on time in the market. Most investments are described as a medium to long-term commitment. This is because the longer you invest, the greater your potential for making a profit. You should aim to invest for at least 5 years. 
Historically, markets tend to rise over time. There may be short-term fluctuations – even some losses along the way. But if you have an easy-access emergency fund to cover any unexpected costs, you'll be less likely to have to sell your investments during a downturn. And you’ll be able to give your investments time to recover from any losses.
Remember that past performance is no guarantee of future returns. Markets can go down as well as up and there’s always a risk you could get back less than you put in.
Making your money go further 
Savings accounts are generally seen as the safest way to save. However, interest rates can go up or down. When interest rates are low, the rate of interest you earn on your savings might be less than the rate of inflation. This means the money you save buys you less over time.
If you don’t need to access your money for 5 years or more, investing gives it greater potential for beating inflation than savings. Keep in mind – no investments are without risk. But in return for a certain degree of risk, you get the opportunity to make your money work harder.
Explore: Saving vs investing
Making the ride less bumpy 
When you invest, the value of your investment will change in response to what’s happening in the markets. These short-term fluctuations are a normal part of investing.
One way to make the ride less bumpy is to diversify. This is when you place your money in a range of different investments, rather than just one. The idea is that losses to one investment could be offset by gains to another. It’s more commonly known as ‘not putting all your eggs in one basket’.
The good news is you don’t have to be an expert investor to diversify. You can do it by buying into a ready-made portfolio. Also known as multi-asset funds, these types of investments are designed to stay within your chosen level of risk.
Making it a habit 
Another way to help beat volatility in the market is to invest some money each month. This averages out the price of the investments you buy. In months when the markets are down, your investment will buy more units. And in months when markets are high, you’ll buy less – but profits might be greater.
When you invest regularly, it also reduces the risk of investing a lump sum when prices are overly high and susceptible to a short-term fall. And you’d be surprised at how the value of your investments can add up. 
With HSBC, you can invest in a ready-made portfolio with a lump sum of £50 and regular payments from £50 per month after your first investment. Eligibility criteria and some fees apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about investing 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Investing for beginners 
Myths about investing 
The benefits of financial advice\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/is-now-a-good-time-to-invest/
########Top of main content 
Invest or repay your debts? 
As a general rule, it’s usually better to consider paying off your debts before you start investing – especially if they’re high-interest debts. But not all debts are equal. 
Here, we look at your options to help you decide if it’s better to invest some of it or repay your debts early.
When you might consider paying off debt first 
Typically, the cost-effective option is to repay any debt with the highest interest rate first – before you start investing – as it’s charging you the most to borrow the money. 
You should prioritise paying off any high interest credit cards and payday loans. That’s because the interest rate you pay is likely to be higher than the rate of return on any investment you make.
It could be sensible to clear debt from overdrafts as quickly as you can too, to reduce the amount of interest you pay and take control of your finances. If you feel you’re having to rely on your overdraft, it may not be the right time for you to invest. 
We recommend that you build up an emergency fund of at least 3 months’ worth of living expenses before you consider investing. That way, you're less likely to dip into your investment if life throws you any surprises – and you can give your money time to potentially grow.
Keep in mind – investing should be seen as a medium to long-term commitment, which means you should be prepared to invest for at least 5 years. This is to give your investment a better chance to ride out any short-term fluctuations.
Explore: How to get out of debt
When you might consider investing alongside debt 
If the returns you’re expecting to make by investing are greater than the interest on your debt, could it make sense to invest instead of paying off your debts early? Maybe in theory. But investment returns are only expected – not guaranteed and you may not get back what you invest. 
Here are a few factors to consider:
credit score – if you invest, you still need to continue to meet the repayments on all your debts to avoid charges and damage to your credit score 
low or interest-free deals – you usually need to pay off any balance in full before the deal period ends to avoid paying more interest 
early repayment charges – you need to work out whether the interest payments you save from paying off debt early will be greater than any early repayment charges you incur 
One thing that’s certain is your debt, whether interest-bearing or not, is a commitment that you need to be able to honour. Investing is the last thing you should do if it puts you at risk of not being able to pay off your debts.
Can you invest when you have a mortgage? 
A mortgage can be an exception to the ‘pay off your debts first’ rule.
Unlike short-term debts, mortgages are long-term commitments that have been priced to be paid off over the full term. 
Also, by waiting until the mortgage has been repaid before you start investing, you‘ll be limiting your time in the investment market. And one of the strengths of investing over the long term is it gives your money time to potentially grow.
It’s true that making overpayments on your mortgage could save you money on interest in the long run. However, not all mortgages are flexible. Before making overpayments, you should check the terms of your mortgage to see if they are allowed and, if so, whether there are any early repayment charges. 
If your mortgage won’t let you make overpayments or limits them to 10% a year, it could make sense to put any extra money into an investment. That way, you’d be building up a separate pot of money, alongside the value in your property, to help improve your financial future. 
Keep in mind – investing comes with risk, and there’s a chance you may get back less than you put in.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
New to investing? 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Saving vs investing 
When is a good time to invest? 
Help with managing debt\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/invest-or-repay-your-debts/
########Top of main content 
What's a stocks & shares ISA? 
A stocks & shares ISA is a tax-efficient investment account. 
This means you don’t have to pay UK income tax or capital gains tax on money you earn from your investments made through the ISA.
ISA stands for Individual Savings Account. If you want to you to invest in shares, funds, investment trusts or bonds, you can generally do so using a stocks & shares ISA – sometimes referred to as an investment ISA. It’s important to understand that the value of investments can fall as well as rise and you may not get back what you invest.
We explain how a stocks & shares ISA works and what to consider.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
How does a stocks & shares ISA work? 
You don’t need to be on Wall Street to invest your money. You can start investing from your kitchen while having a cup of tea. 
You can open a stocks & shares ISA if:
you’re aged 18 or over 
you haven’t already subscribed to another stocks & shares ISA for the current tax year 
you’ve not exceeded your £20,000 ISA limit for the current tax year 
You must also be either:
a UK resident for tax purposes 
a crown servant working outside the UK or their spouse or civil partner 
To open a stocks & shares ISA with us, you'll first need to have an HSBC current account. You'll also need to meet the eligibility criteria for the investment you'd like to apply for. Fees will apply.
Before you invest your money, it's important to spend some time learning the basics and understanding the risks. Our new to investing page is a great place to start.
A stocks & shares ISA should be seen as a medium to long-term commitment. That means you should be prepared to invest for at least 5 years. The value of any investment can fall, as well as rise, so there's always a risk that you may get back less than what you invest.
What can you invest in? 
If you decide to invest, you can either:
choose to invest in funds 
research and buy your own shares 
Invest in funds 
An easy way to start investing is to buy units in ready-made baskets of investments. Funds allow you to spread your money – and risk – across different investments including shares, trusts and bonds. You can either research and buy your own funds, or choose a ready-made portfolio.
Research and buy your own shares 
If you’re keen to take an active interest in investing, you might prefer to research and buy your own shares. When you buy a share, you're buying a small stake in a company. It can feel good to watch a business you believe in do well – but remember that companies can also do badly. The value of your investment could fall.
How much can you pay into an ISA? 
The total amount you can save in ISAs in the 2023/2024 tax year is £20,000. This is known as your annual ISA allowance. The government sets this limit and can change it from one financial year to another.
You can invest all your allowance in a stocks & shares ISA or spread it across other types of ISA, such as a cash ISA. But you can only subscribe to one ISA of each type per tax year and you must stay within the total limit of £20,000. 
If you have Lifetime ISA, you can only put in up to £4,000 each tax year until you’re 50. The Lifetime ISA limit of £4,000 counts towards your annual ISA limit. 
The tax year runs from 6 April to 5 April. The HMRC deadline to put money in an ISA and take advantage of your allowance for each tax year is midnight on 5 April. However, it's worth checking with your provider as they may have an earlier deadline. 
Keep in mind – the value of tax benefits will depend on your individual circumstances and tax rules can change in the future.
What happens to any income from a stocks & shares ISA? 
Here’s what you may be able do with any income made on investments in a stocks & shares ISA:
receive income payments 
have it reinvested back into the investment it’s come from to help accumulate more growth 
hold it as cash in your ISA – which you can use it to buy a different type of investment within the same ISA 
There are some investment types – such as accumulation funds – that will only allow you to reinvest. This means the value of any income received will stay within the investment until the time you come to sell.
Before choosing your investments, it’s important to understand whether you’re investing for income or for growth.
How much does it cost to invest in a stocks & shares ISA? 
If you’re thinking about investing in a stocks & shares ISA, there are fees and charges to be aware of. These include:
Account fee / platform fee 
You may be charged for using a single online account – also known as an investment platform – that holds your investments together in one place. This can be a flat fee, or a percentage of the value of your investments you have in the account.
Fund management charge 
When you invest in funds, the fund managers will charge you for actively looking after your investments – also known as an annual management fee.
Buying and selling charges 
With share dealing, it’s common to pay either a percentage or a flat fee every time you buy and sell shares on a platform. This is also known as a trading fee. There may also be taxes such as stamp duty reserve tax in the UK or the foreign equivalent. This depends on the nature of the investment.
Transfer out fee 
Some providers charge a fee if you move your stocks & shares ISA to another provider.
Are you ready to invest? 
Now might be the ideal time to invest for some people, but not for others. This will depend on your own circumstances. 
Before you start investing, it’s recomm\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/what-is-a-stocks-and-shares-isa/
########Top of main content 
New ways to save for your future 
If you’ve built up some savings, you’re in a great position. 
The next step is to develop your savings habit and try to earn more from your money. From making it automatic to considering investing for those longer-term goals, here are some tips that could help you on your way. 
Make it automatic 
One of the hardest parts of saving is remembering to do it. If you take the need to remember out of the equation, you could reach your goals much quicker.
So whichever type of account you use to save your money, make it automatic. Set up a standing order or a Direct Debit and have it come out of your account on pay day. That way you can set it and forget it, knowing your saving habit will take care of itself.
Explore: Managing your money with tech and tools 
Keep your emergency savings separate 
One of the first measures of being financially fit is having an emergency fund. The idea is to have between 3 and 6 months’ worth of living costs within easy reach to cover any unexpected expenses.
It can be disheartening trying to save for a longer-term goal if you keep having to raid your savings to pay for things like a car repair or a replacement washing machine.
It’s hard to predict if and when you’ll need this money - so emergencies should always be the first thing you save for. Make sure the money’s kept in an instant-access account so you can get your hands on it if ever you need to. And avoid the temptation to dip into it for non-emergencies – like a holiday, for example. 
Use our financial fitness score tool to see how resilient you are and set savings targets.
Decide when you want to access your money 
Once you’ve got your emergency fund, take your savings habit to the next level by working out exactly what else you’re saving for.
You don’t have to choose between saving for short-term and long-term goals. Ideally, you’ll do both. But for each goal, you need to be mindful of when you think you’ll want to spend the money.
Why? Because being clear and considered about what you’re saving for and when you’ll need the money determines where you could put your cash.
For short-term goals, keep it within reach 
For money you’ll want to spend within less than 5 years – say, for a new car or a house deposit – it makes sense to keep it in a savings account. Because if you were to invest, you could potentially suffer losses in the short-term and not have cash available when you need it.
But as you know, not all savings accounts are the same. With a fixed rate account or a regular savings account you may be able to earn a slightly higher interest rate in return for locking your money away for a fixed period of time.
Explore our savings accounts
Factor in inflation 
When saving for longer-term goals, there’s an added complexity you need to beware of: inflation.
Inflation is the rate at which the price of goods and services increase. As things generally become more expensive over time, inflation reduces the value of your money.
To bring home the impact of inflation on your future savings, it can help to look back at what £1 would have bought over the last few decades11 view footnote 1:
1970: £1 = 10 loaves of bread
1980: £1 = 3 loaves of bread
1990: £1 = 2 loaves of bread
2000: £1 = 2 loaves of bread
2010: £1 = 1 loaf of bread
2020: £1 = 0.93 loaf of bread
What does this mean for your savings? For each year when the rate of inflation is higher than the rate you earn on your savings, your money is effectively shrinking in terms of what it can buy. 
For long-term goals, consider investing 
If you’ve got an adequate emergency fund in place, you might consider switching some of your monthly savings contributions into an investment fund. Because while savings accounts are considered safe, the interest rates they earn are often less than inflation – and some earn no interest at all.
Investing should always be seen as a long-term strategy of 5 years or more. The longer you invest for, the longer you’ll have to recover from any market falls. Over the long term, investing gives you the potential to earn better returns than saving. But there are no guarantees. Your money can go down as well as up in value so you could get back less than you invest.
If you’ve never tried it before, you might think investing is just for the experts. But it can be surprisingly easy to get started.
You can invest in ready-made portfolios of funds, which spread your money across different types of investments. That way you don’t have to research, choose and manage your own stocks. 
Eligibility criteria and some fees apply.
Explore: New to investing?
1Source: Office for National Statistics Office for National Statistics This link will open in a new window
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Investing for beginners 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Visualise your retirement 
What's a stocks & shares ISA? 
When is a good time to invest?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/new-ways-to-save/
########Top of main content 
Saving vs investing 
Saving is a way of storing your money until you need it. Whereas investing is about putting your money to work for you – and with this, comes more risk. 
You may have wondered, "Should I save or invest?".
Here, we look at both options to help you decide – or if you need both.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What is saving? 
Saving is setting aside some of your money for future use, rather than spending it. You can add to your savings in one-off or regular payments. And if you use an easy-access savings account, you can get back what you put in – plus the interest you've earned – whenever you want it.
However, saving has a lower risk of losing value. Under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS), if a UK bank or building society you save with goes bust, you'd get back up to £85,000 of your savings.
Is saving risk-free? Not exactly. Interest rates can go up and down. When interest rates are low, the return you'll get on your money will be very modest. The risk is it won't beat inflation – the rate at which the prices of goods and services increase. So, while the money in your savings account isn't going anywhere, its purchasing power drops over time. In other words, it will buy you less.
What is investing? 
Investing is another way of setting aside money for the future, where you invest your money into something with the aim of making a profit in the long run. 
There are different ways to invest, which typically involve charges or fees. Perhaps the most well-known are:
shares – where you buy a tiny slice of an individual company; and 
funds – where you buy into a ready-made basket of investments that are managed for you by an expert 
When you invest, you're exposed to a different type of risk – exposure to the markets. The value of your investment can, and will, jump around so you can get back less than you put in. Your expected returns can also fluctuate and are not guaranteed. If you’re thinking of investing, you should check whether the investment is FSCS protected check whether the investment is FSCS protected This link will open in a new window too.
Ideally, aim to invest for 5 years or more. A longer time frame gives your investment more time to recover if it falls in value. By planning when to access your money, you can manage the risk you take.
Why take any risk? Well, for a start, not all investment risk is equal. And the benefit of taking a calculated amount of risk is – it gives you the potential to make more money than you would from a savings account. 
Is investing worth the risk? Our guide can help you to decide.
Is saving or investing right for you? 
If you have more than one goal you’d like to put your money towards, you might consider a combination of saving (for short-term goals) and investing (for long-term goals). 
Work out how much you can afford to put away each month. Creating a budget can help you do this. 
When you have a figure in mind, think about what you might need the money for and when.
It's helpful to split your money among several pots:
Unexpected things that could happen 
Before you save for anything else, you should build up an emergency fund of at least 3 months’ worth of living expenses to fall back on. Ideally, this should be in an easily accessible savings account.
Things you plan to do within the next 5 years 
If you need money in the short-term, such as a home deposit, saving makes sense. Investing for less than 5 years will give your investment less chance to make up for any fall in value.
Things you plan to do within 5 to 10 years 
For medium-term money, maybe to pay for a wedding – saving could make sense. Although, if you're prepared to take some risk – investing in funds could earn you a greater return on your money.
Things you want to do at least 10 years from now 
For money you may not need straight away, such as a retirement fund – taking a degree of investment risk could earn you a greater return, as the value of your savings will get eroded by inflation over time.
The golden rule 
Save for what's around the corner and invest for the future.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about investing 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
When is a good time to invest? 
Inflation's eating your savings – what can you do about it? 
Invest or repay your debts?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/saving-vs-investing/
########Top of main content 
How much can I borrow? 
Discover how much you could borrow using this simple calculator 
Calculate how much you could borrow 
Use this calculator to get an indication of how much you could borrow based on your income.
What you'll need 
The calculator will ask you for your income, a property value and deposit amount.
If you've already started looking for properties, you can enter a property value and deposit amount into the calculator, and we'll show you your Loan to Value (LTV) ratio. This will allow you to check the rates that are available to you.
If you've not found a property yet, just enter your gross annual income (yearly income before tax) and we’ll show you the maximum amount we could lend you based on your income alone.
Please note that the figure provided does not take account of your individual circumstances, such as your household expenditure, your credit history or the condition of the property. We strongly recommend that you get a Decision in Principle, which is a personalised estimate of how much you could borrow. Please also refer to the 'Important information' section below.
How much could I borrow?
To work out the maximum you could borrow, enter your income and the income of any joint applicant. To work out your LTV, enter a property value and deposit amount.
First applicant's income
Enter your gross annual income (yearly income before tax)
GBP
0
Second applicant's income (optional)
Enter second applicant’s gross annual income (yearly income before tax)
GBP
0
Property value
Enter the purchase price or value of the property you want to buy
GBP
0
Deposit amount
Enter the amount of money you want to pay towards the property
GBP
0
Summary
Amount you could borrow
GBP 0.00
Amount you want to borrow
GBP 0.00
Loan to Value (LTV)
0.00%
Get a Decision in Principle
Next steps
Repayments calculator
I want to find out what my monthly payments could be.
Mortgage rates
I want to see which rates I can apply for.
Get a Decision in Principle
I want to get a personalised estimate of how much I could borrow, and begin my application.
Important information 
a maximum of 2 applicants can apply for a new HSBC mortgage
the maximum amount you can borrow may be lower depending on your LTV and following our assessment of your personal circumstances
figures given by this calculator or the provision of a Decision in Principle do not constitute an offer to lend to you
if you're resident in the Channel Islands or Isle of Man, please contact your local branch to obtain an indication of the amount you may be able to borrow
Think carefully before securing any other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/how-much-can-i-borrow/
########Top of main content 
Buy-to-let mortgages 
Mortgages to help your property investment 
A helping hand for landlords 
Whether you're starting out or expanding your property portfolio, we've got a range of mortgages to suit you.
Our current rates 
You could have low monthly payments with our latest rates. 
Up to 75% Loan to Value mortgage 
You'll need a minimum 25% deposit for a buy-to-let mortgage. 
Standard valuation 
All our mortgages come with a standard property valuation, so there's less for you to think about. 
Apply by phone or online 
You can speak to one of our mortgage advisers or apply online. 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your property. Your property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Not looking to let out a property? View our mortgages 
Things to consider before you apply 
We've listed some key information below to help you learn more about the application. Plus, you can also take a look at our helpful Buy-to-let factsheet for further guidance.
Buy-to-let factsheet (PDF, 54KB)Buy-to-let factsheet (PDF, 54KB) This link will open in a new window
Who can apply 
To apply for a buy-to-let mortgage, you should make sure that:
you've owned and lived in your current home for at least 6 months
you have a minimum annual salary of £25,000 (excluding rental income)
your maximum borrowing won't exceed 75% loan to value 
you're not a portfolio landlord
your annual rental income will be at least 125% of your mortgage payments, if all mortgage applicants are lower-rate tax payers. Or, if any applicant is a higher-rate tax payer, your annual rental income should be at least 145% of your mortgage payments
you won't have more than £2 million buy-to-let borrowing with HSBC (including the amount you wish to apply for)
What is a portfolio landlord? 
A portfolio landlord for our purposes is a person (or people, in the case of a joint mortgage) that has or will have 4 or more buy-to-let mortgaged properties.
What should your rental income be? 
You should check that the amount of rent your property could generate will be at least 125% of your mortgage payments, if all mortgage applicants are lower-rate tax payers. Or, at least 145% if any applicant is a higher-rate tax payer.
For example, if your monthly mortgage payment is £100 (100%), your monthly rental income must be at least £125 (125%) or £145 (145%), depending on the above criteria.
The monthly mortgage payment figure used is based on an interest rate that is higher than our current rate. This is to help make sure that your loan is affordable now and in the future.
You should also check to make sure that the property you're looking to buy:
is located in the UK
isn't a house in multiple occupancy (HMO), such as a student let
can be let under an assured shorthold tenancy (AST) or company let agreement
has a minimum property valuation amount of £75,000
has a minimum energy performance certificate (EPC) of E or above. The energy rating will be determined during the property valuation
Here's an idea of what details you'll need:
personal income
employment
outgoings 
rental property costs 
Apply for a buy to let mortgage 
Apply online 
Applying for a buy-to-let mortgage with us is straightforward
Start your application Start your application for a buy to let mortgage This link will open in a new window 
Already started your application? 
Track your progress or update online at any time
Return to your application Return to your application for a buy to let mortgage 
If you're not a UK resident find out how to applyfind out how to apply for a buy to let mortgage if you're not UK resident.
Arrange an appointment 
If you would like to speak to us about a buy-to-let mortgage but you're unsure whether you're ready to proceed, we can offer you a 30 minute initial discussion with an expert . They will be able to answer any questions you may have before booking a follow up appointment
Book my 30 minute initial discussion Book my 30 minute initial discussion This link will open in a new window 
When you're ready to proceed, you can make an appointment with one of our team who will help you complete your full buy-to-let mortgage application.
Book my 90 minute appointment Book my 90 minute appointment This link will open in a new window 
You might also be interested in 
A guide for buy-to-let mortgages
Get to know more about applying for a buy-to-let mortgage with us.
Rates
Compare our current mortgage rates.
Fees
Be clear about the fees you can expect to pay.
Repayments calculator
Work out how much your monthly payments could be.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/buy-to-let/
########Top of main content 
Mortgages for moving home 
Move home and you could get a better deal with an HSBC mortgage 
Apply for a new mortgage with us when you move home 
If you have a mortgage with another provider and you're moving to a new home, you could get a better deal if you apply for a new mortgage with us.
Get a Decision in Principle to find our how much you could borrow. Then, we'll let you know what you’ll need to do for your application.
	
Get a Decision in Principle 
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Already have an HSBC mortgage? Find out how you can transfer your mortgage to another property if you're moving home.
Tools to help you choose 
Not sure which mortgage rate is right for you? Use our calculators to see how much you could borrow, or work out how much your monthly repayments could be.
How much could you borrow? 
Repayments calculator 
Get informed 
Take a look at our range of award-winning mortgages, with our latest rates if you're moving home. Plus, understand more about our fees.
Moving home rates 
Understand our fees 
Why choose HSBC? 
If you're moving home, we've got a range of fixed and tracker mortgages to choose from and applying with us is easy.11 view footnote 1
	
Move your mortgage to us and you could find a lower interest rate, that could make your monthly repayments less. 
All our mortgages come with a standard property valuation at no extra cost, so there's less to think about.
	
Apply whichever way suits you, but you'll have the option of our mortgage advice if you apply by phone or in branch. 
Ready to get started? 
Get a Decision in Principle 
Frequently Asked Questions
I'm moving home with an another mortgage provider, can I move my mortgage to HSBC? 
Yes, when you're moving home you can apply for a mortgage with us, and you could find a lower interest rate, that could make your monthly repayments less. We've got a range of fixed and tracker mortgages to choose from.
I have a mortgage with HSBC already, can I move it to the new home that I'm buying? 
Yes, if you have a mortgage with us already, you can transfer or 'port' your mortgage to your new home. Find out how to transfer your HSBC mortgage.
Can I borrow more money when I move home and apply for a mortgage with HSBC? 
Yes, whether you have an HSBC mortgage already, or you're currently with another provider, you can apply for a mortgage with us to borrow more. This could help if your new home is more expensive, or if you're looking to do some home improvements. 
Need some advice? 
Give our dedicated mortgage specialists a call on:
0800 169 6333
Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
The small print 
1Our mortgage awards: MoneyfactsMoneyfacts This link will open in a new window, Mortgage Finance GazetteMortgage Finance Gazette This link will open in a new window, Your MortgageYour Mortgage This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/moving-home/
########Top of main content 
Help with your mortgage payments as living costs rise 
If you’re worried about household bills and paying your mortgage as living costs rise, you’re not alone – we’re here to help. 
Here, we explain how your mortgage may be affected by interest rates and how to reduce your monthly payments.
How will interest rates affect my mortgage? 
If you have a fixed-rate mortgage 
Even if interest rates change, your monthly payments won’t be affected if you have a fixed-rate mortgage – they’ll stay the same until the end of the fixed-rate period. 
But you’ll want to think about what to do when this period ends. If you don’t arrange another deal, you may be moved onto a standard variable rate (SVR), which could see your monthly payments go up. 
It’s important to understand what your current rate is, and when it’s due to end – so you can prepare to switch your rate or remortgage before the fixed-rate period finishes.
If you have a tracker mortgage 
A tracker is a variable rate mortgage usually linked to the Bank of England base rate. This means your monthly payments can go up and down. 
A change in the base rate will affect the amount of interest you pay, and your tracker mortgage payments. Use our Bank of England base rate calculator to see how your payments could change. 
If you’re an HSBC customer and your mortgage is affected by a base rate change, we’ll write to you to confirm your new interest rate and monthly mortgage payments.
Changing to a new mortgage deal, such as a fixed-rate mortgage, could give you stability over a set period – where your payments will stay the same each month.
If you’re on a standard variable rate (SVR) 
The SVR is the rate of interest that’s usually charged once a fixed rate or tracker period ends. The SVR is set by your mortgage lender – it’s not directly affected by any changes to the Bank of England base rate. However, the SVR is variable and can change, which means your monthly payments could go up or down. 
If you’re on an SVR, you could be paying more than you need to, and it may not be the best option for you to stay on this for a long time. If you’d like to switch your rate, or you’re not sure what to do – we can help with your mortgage payments.
How to reduce your monthly mortgage payments 
1. Reduce or cancel any mortgage overpayments 
If you already pay more towards your mortgage, and you’re starting to feel the pinch – you may consider reducing or cancelling your regular overpayments for a while. You’ll still need to make your monthly payments on your mortgage, but it may help make it easier to manage your bills.
Alternatively, if you happen to have savings available, you could consider using some of these to make a lump sum overpayment and reduce your ongoing monthly mortgage payment.
2. Switch your mortgage rate 
You can switch mortgage rates with your current lender, including HSBC, at any time. The good news is that we don’t need to check your eligibility or credit score for you to switch rates with us.
Many people with a fixed-rate mortgage wait until their current deal comes to an end to switch. If you choose to switch before your current rate ends, you may want to find out what your early repayment charge (ERC) would be. This can help you decide if moving to a better deal early is worthwhile, and whether the money you might save outweighs any costs.
3. Remortgage 
You could also remortgage to HSBC from a different lender to find a lower interest rate, which could reduce your monthly repayments. You can remortgage anytime but, to avoid potential ERCs, people tend to consider remortgaging towards the end of their existing mortgage rate. 
There may also be costs involved when moving your mortgage to a new lender. To help you decide if it’s worthwhile, you can calculate your new mortgage repayments and see if the benefits of remortgaging outweigh any costs.
Explore: Should you remortgage?
4. Extend your mortgage term 
If you need a little breathing space, you may be able to extend your mortgage term. This can reduce your monthly payments and make it easier for you to manage your outgoings. Depending on your needs, this could be agreed without an assessment of your circumstances. 
Keep in mind – if you increase your mortgage term, it can take you longer to pay off the mortgage, and you’ll pay more interest overall. 
As your circumstances improve, you may want to reduce your mortgage term, or make overpayments, to reduce the size of your mortgage and the amount of interest you pay.
Increasing your mortgage to repay other financial commitments 
If you have equity in your home, you may be able to borrow against it, in the form of a home loan to repay other lending. This might help you reduce and more comfortably manage your outgoings. You don’t need to wait for your current deal to end before you can apply for this, but borrowing more against your home, especially to repay other debts, needs careful thought. 
With any form of borrowing, you need to be able to afford the repayments. You should consider how much you want to borrow, how long you need to pay it back and your current financial situation. The value of your property can also fall, which can leave you in negative equity, where you could owe more than your home is worth.
Some borrowing options will be more suitable for you than others. For example, repaying your debts with an unsecured loan might be more appropriate.
Changing the date your monthly mortgage payment is due 
You could also change the date of your monthly mortgage payment to help you manage your money – as long as the correct payment is made in each calendar month.
For example, if you’ve changed employer and are now paid on a different date – you may want to adjust the Direct Debit, so your monthly mortgage payment leaves your account shortly after you’ve been paid. 
If you have an HSBC mortgage, you can call us or use online Chat to request a change to your mortgage payment due date. We’ll need at least 7 working da\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/help-with-mortgage-payments-as-living-costs-rise/
########Top of main content 
10 steps to buying your own home 
From making an offer on a property to applying for a mortgage – buying your own home is an exciting time, but there’s lots to think about. 
Here are 10 steps to help you through the process of buying a property:
Know what you can afford 
Build up your home deposit and savings 
Check and improve your credit score 
Know what type of property you’re looking for 
Get a Decision in Principle 
Find the right home and make an offer 
Apply for a mortgage 
Kick off the legal work 
Carry out a property survey 
Exchange contracts and agree a completion date 
1. Know what you can afford 
The first step is to get a rough estimate of how much you could borrow for a mortgage. This will give you an idea of the type of property and location you could afford. It may also help you work out how much you’ll need to save for a deposit.
Some lenders, including HSBC, offer 95% mortgages, which require a smaller deposit. There are also government housing schemes available to help make buying a property easier.
2. Build up your home deposit and savings 
If you don’t have enough for a home deposit, make a savings plan. You can also create a budget to see where you can cut back and save more. 
It’s a good idea to save as much as you can when planning to buy a home because:
a larger deposit may help you find a lower interest rate and reduce your monthly repayments 
your savings can help cover the costs of buying a property, such as Stamp Duty, conveyancer’s fees, survey costs and removals 
your savings can help you furnish or complete work on your new home 
Explore: How to save for a home deposit
3. Check and improve your credit score 
When you apply to borrow money, lenders will look at your credit score before deciding whether to accept your application. It can show them how reliable you are at borrowing and repaying money.
It’s a good idea to check your credit report to make sure there are no mistakes. You can also improve your credit score to increase your chances of getting a mortgage.
4. Know what type of property you’re looking for 
Take some time to think about what you need in a home versus what you’d like. This will help you narrow down your search when it comes to looking at properties. For example:
Needs vs wants when comparing properties 
What you need in a home What you’d like in a home 
At least 2 bedrooms	3 bedrooms	
Space for parking	A garage or own driveway	
Outdoor space for a dog	A private, low-maintenance garden	
Needs vs wants when comparing properties 
What you need in a home At least 2 bedrooms At least 2 bedrooms	
What you’d like in a home 3 bedrooms 3 bedrooms	
	
What you need in a home Space for parking Space for parking	
What you’d like in a home A garage or own driveway A garage or own driveway	
	
What you need in a home Outdoor space for a dog Outdoor space for a dog	
What you’d like in a home A private, low-maintenance garden A private, low-maintenance garden	
When making your list, think about your long-term needs. House prices can go down as well as up and it can cost money to move. For example, if you’re hoping to start a family, finding a place with room to expand may mean you won’t have to sell to buy a bigger place later on.
Location is also important. Research and visit different areas to get an idea of:
what it would be like to live there 
what areas you could afford to buy in 
what the schools are like 
how long it would take to commute to work 
Explore: How to choose a location when buying a property
5. Get a Decision in Principle 
A Decision in Principle – also known as an Agreement in Principle – gives you a clear idea of how much you could borrow based on your circumstances. It usually involves a soft credit check to look at your credit history, but will have no impact on your credit file.
A Decision in Principle is not a guarantee that your mortgage application will be accepted, but it can help you understand your options and what you may be able to afford. It also shows estate agents you’re serious about buying a property.
6. Find the right home and make an offer 
With your list of requirements in hand it’s time to contact estate agents, search for properties and arrange viewings. This is also a good time to start looking for a solicitor or licensed conveyancer.
It may take some time, but when you find a property you want, deciding on the right price to offer can be exciting – and scary. From asking the right questions to negotiating tactics, get tips on how to make an offer on a property.
If your final offer is accepted – congratulations. If not, keep looking – your new home, at a price you’re happy with, could be just around the corner.
7. Apply for a mortgage 
Once your offer has been accepted on the property, you can apply for a mortgage.
There are different types of mortgages to choose from. The one for you will depend on your financial situation, future plans and the type of property you’re buying. If you prefer, you can speak to a mortgage broker to help you find and apply for a mortgage. They’ll be able to look at a variety of mortgage options for you and give you advice. Some brokers may charge a fee.
The mortgage application process can take a few weeks. It involves detailed checks of your finances and your lender may want to conduct its own valuation on the property you want to buy. If your mortgage application is approved, your lender will send you an offer.
8. Kick off the legal work 
The legal work is carried out by a solicitor or licensed conveyancer. This can take between 6 to 12 weeks, on average, to complete and there will be costs involved.
Among other tasks, a solicitor or licensed conveyancer will typically:
check the legal title to the property 
manage the chain for exchange of contracts and completion 
collect and transfer money including Stamp Duty (if payable) 
carry out property searches to check for any environmental or planning issues that might affect the property’s value 
9. Carry out a \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/steps-to-buying-your-own-home/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage repayment calculator 
Find out what your mortgage payments might be using our simple calculator 
Enter the interest rate you've chosen, your mortgage amount, how long you'd like to repay it over and the type of mortgage you're looking for. We'll give you an indication of what your monthly payments could be.
How much could my mortgage repayments be?
This calculator helps to provide an overview of what your repayments could be based on the interest rate, term and repayment type selected.
Interest rate
Enter the interest rate you will be paying on your mortgage
%
4.50
Mortgage amount
Enter the amount you will be borrowing
GBP
250,000
Mortgage term - years
Enter the number of years between 0 and 40 you wish to pay the mortgage over
This is a Mortgage term - years fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
0
40
Mortgage term - months
If your term also includes months, enter the number of months between 0 and 11
This is a Mortgage term - months fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
0 months
11 months
Repayment type
Choose your repayment type in the dropdown below
Capital repayment
Capital repayment
Interest only
Summary
Monthly repayments
GBP 1,390
Total interest payable
GBP 166,874
Get a decision in principleView our rates
Find out more about how your mortgage may be affected by interest rates and ways you could reduce your payments as living costs rise.	
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Calculator assumptions 
The figures provided by this calculator are for information purposes only. Please ensure you obtain a personalised Mortgage Illustration before making a decision to proceed with a mortgage.
Monthly repayments – The calculator divides the mortgage amount and the total interest payable by the total number months in the mortgage term.
Rounding of repayment amounts - The calculator uses the unrounded repayment to derive the amount of interest payable over the full term of the loan.
Interest rate - The interest rate input is a nominal rate and is used to calculate the total interest payable over the mortgage term. The calculator assumes that the interest rate will remain the same throughout the mortgage term.
Timing of interest conversion - The calculator assumes that interest is charged to the loan account at the same frequency as the repayments are made. In practice, there may be differences between the timing of the loan repayments and the timing of the interest charges being added to the loan balance.
Applications for new monies will require a minimum term of 5 years.
The information provided by this tool is for guidance. It does not include the details that you need to choose a mortgage and does not constitute an offer of a mortgage from us. The figures are illustrative only.
Frequently asked questions 
What can I use the mortgage repayment calculator for? 
You can use our mortgage repayment calculator to:
see how much your monthly repayments might be
check the impact of interest rate changes or changes in term length
see the difference in repayments between interest-only and capital repayment mortgages
What are mortgage repayments made up of? 
With a capital repayment mortgage, your monthly mortgage repayments are made up of a combination of capital (ie the amount left to pay on what you've borrowed) and the interest you're being charged. In the early years of your mortgage, most of your monthly repayments will go towards paying off the interest on your loan. But as you get nearer to the end of your mortgage term, you'll start paying off more of the capital each month.
With an interest-only mortgage, your monthly repayment only pays the interest on your loan. At the end of your mortgage term you'll have to pay back the amount you borrowed, so you'll need a plan in place that will enable you to do so.
What are the different mortgage repayment types? 
At HSBC, we offer 2 different mortgage repayment types:
'capital repayment', where you pay off the amount you've borrowed (the capital) over time, as well as interest on the loan
and 'interest-only', where you only pay the interest on what you've borrowed
With interest-only mortgages, you'll need to be able to pay off the capital at the end of the term, so you'll need a plan in place that will allow you to do that.
Additional eligibility criteria apply for our interest-only mortgages.
How do I find out the interest rate for my HSBC mortgage? 
You can find out your interest rate by logging on to online banking and selecting your mortgage account. You can also find out by calling us or contacting us via chat.
You might be interested in
Compare our mortgages
Discover our wide range of award-winning mortgages.
Our mortgage calculators
Understanding mortgages couldn’t be simpler with our interactive calculators.
Compare our mortgage rates
Take a look at our latest mortgage rates, including fixed and variable rate options.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/repayment-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Can a low EPC rating affect your mortgage application? 
It can sometimes be difficult to get a mortgage on a property with a low Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating. 
Here, we look at what an EPC is and why it matters when it comes to buying a property.
What is an Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating? 
An EPC rating measures the energy efficiency of a property from A (extremely efficient) to G (least efficient). 
The higher the rating, the lower your energy bills are likely to be. A poor EPC rating suggests low energy efficiency, which means it will cost you more to heat and power the property. 
EPCs also provide information on things like the property’s carbon dioxide emissions, which can give you an idea of its environmental impact. 
The average EPC rating for a home in the UK is D. Properties that achieve a rating of A tend to be brand new environmentally-friendly homes that have a low carbon footprint.
EPCs provide 2 ratings: current and potential. This shows how efficient the property is now, and how much it could be improved with some recommendations listed on the EPC. It also includes the typical installation cost and typical yearly saving of each measure.
Where can you find the EPC rating of a property? 
If you’re buying a home, the person selling the property must show you the EPC. If you’re renting, it’s the landlord’s responsibility to provide one. 
You can also find out if a property has a valid EPC find out if a property has a valid EPC This link will open in a new window on the government register. 
Some properties don’t require an EPC, such as certain listed buildings, but it’s worth checking to make sure.
Why is a home’s energy performance important? 
According to the Climate Change Committee (CCC), 40% of UK emissions come from households.11 View source 1
The CCC recommends all UK homes reach an EPC of at least band C by 2028 – to help the government meet its net zero carbon target by 2050.22 View source 2 Only 29% of UK homes meet this standard today.33 View source 3
Landlords are also affected. At the moment, rental properties must have an EPC rating of E or above for legal reasons, but the EPC threshold may increase in the future.44 View source 4 
You may need to carry out additional insulation work or other improvements to make a home more energy efficient – before you’re able to let or, potentially, sell the property.
Can you get a mortgage with a low EPC rating? 
Due to the impact low energy-efficient homes have on the environment, lenders may need to factor EPC ratings into lending decisions. This is something to be aware of when considering certain properties to buy. 
If the property you’re looking to buy has an EPC below what we might expect, and little room to improve it with recommended measures, you could find your application is rejected.
Remember – if a home’s EPC doesn’t meet a minimum of an E rating, then it’s illegal to rent it out. This will affect the prospects of getting a buy-to-let mortgage on that property.
If we reject your application, we’ll show you the reasons why. It’s important to remember – it’s only because of the EPC rating of the property, we could give you a mortgage on a different property.
1Climate Change Committee: How households can help reduce the UK’s carbon footprint How households can help reduce the UK’s carbon footprint This link will open in a new window
2Climate Change Committee: The Sixth Carbon Budget: The UK’s path to net zero The Sixth Carbon Budget: The UK’s path to net zero This link will open in a new window
3Green alliance: How to scale up home energy efficiency in the UK How to scale up home energy efficiency in the UK This link will open in a new window
4GOV.UK: Minimum energy efficiency standard - landlord guidance Minimum energy efficiency standard - landlord guidance This link will open in a new window
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Why should you improve your home’s EPC rating? 
How to save money on energy 
Could climate change impact your mortgage application?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/can-a-low-epc-rating-affect-your-mortgage-application/
########Top of main content 
What is remortgaging? 
Remortgaging is when you move your mortgage on your existing property, from one lender to another. Your new mortgage will then replace your old one. 
You may want to remortgage if you’re: 
coming to the end of your existing mortgage rate 
looking for a better deal than your current lender can offer 
planning to borrow more money against your property 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
How does remortgaging work? 
Here are the key steps if you’re looking to remortgage:
1. Do your research 
There are many mortgage deals on the market and it can help to shop around to find the right one for you. This includes asking your current lender what rates they can offer and whether you can switch to a new mortgage rate with them, before looking elsewhere.
Remember – advice and support is available to help you decide if it’s the right time to remortgage, and the mortgage rates available.
2. Consider remortgaging costs 
There may be costs when moving your mortgage to a new lender so it’s important to understand if it’s financially worthwhile. To help you understand, you can calculate your new mortgage repayments and see if the benefits of remortgaging outweigh any costs involved in doing so.
These costs can include:
booking or completion fees charged by a new lender 
conveyancing costs 
property valuation costs 
early repayment charges (ERC) or exit fees charged by your current lender 
3. Get a Decision in Principle 
A Decision in Principle – also known as an Agreement in Principle – gives you a clear idea of how much you could borrow, based on your circumstances. 
Getting a Decision in Principle doesn't commit you to anything and it's not a guarantee that your mortgage application will be accepted. It involves a soft credit check to look at your credit history and will have no impact on your credit score. 
Explore: Get a Decision in Principle
4. Apply for your remortgage 
If you're happy with the Decision in Principle, you can apply for your new mortgage. This can be done online, in branch or over the phone. 
Your new application will involve a hard credit check and you will be asked to provide a number of supporting documents to confirm your income and other details. This will include paperwork for your current mortgage and home insurance cover.
5. Complete the legal work 
Even though you're not buying a new property, remortgaging does involve some legal work. Some lenders will appoint a solicitor or licensed conveyancer on your behalf, or you may be able to choose your own.
A solicitor or licensed conveyancer will manage the paperwork and any transfer of funds on your behalf. They’ll check that your new mortgage amount is enough to pay off your existing lender and send you the legal documents to read and accept. 
Explore: What to expect in the remortgaging conveyancing process
6. Review your offer 
Your new lender will need to arrange a valuation of your property to check that it will provide security for your proposed new mortgage. Once this is completed and your lender has approved your application, they’ll send you an offer for you to review and accept.
7. The final step 
When your new mortgage is set up and the legal work has been done, you’re ready for completion. The completion date is when your new mortgage starts and your old mortgage is repaid. Your new lender will then write to you to let you know the date and amount of your first new mortgage payment.
How long does the remortgage process take? 
Remortgaging your home typically takes 4 to 8 weeks after applying. The amount of time needed will depend on your individual circumstances and remortgage needs.
Providing clear, accurate, and relevant documents when needed, such as proof of earnings can speed up the process.
When should you remortgage? 
You can remortgage anytime but, to avoid potential early repayment charges, people tend to look at remortgaging towards the end of their existing mortgage rate.
If you choose not to review your mortgage rate before it ends, then you will likely be moved onto your lender’s standard variable rate (SVR) and you could end up paying more. This is because the SVR is generally higher than the rate you were on.
Keep in mind – if you’re not coming to the end of your existing mortgage rate, you’ll need to check whether there’s an early repayment charge or fee for exiting your current mortgage. 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Remortgage to HSBC 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Should you remortgage? 
How to switch mortgage rates 
What is home equity?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/what-is-remortgaging/
########Top of main content 
How to switch mortgage rates 
Switching your mortgage rate with your current lender may help you reduce the amount of your monthly payments and save you money. 
So how do you go about it? Here, we look at when you may want to switch and provide steps to help you get started.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript hsbc-switching-your-mortgage-rate-video-transcript This link will open in a new window 
When should you switch your mortgage rate? 
You can switch mortgage rates anytime. However, people tend to look at their options for switching before their existing rate is due to finish. This helps them avoid any early repayment charges. If you decide not to switch rates before your existing rate is due to end, you may be moved onto your lender’s standard variable rate (SVR), which could mean you pay more each month.
Steps to switch your mortgage rate 
Switching to a new mortgage rate is often simpler and quicker than remortgaging with another lender.
Remember – you don’t have to switch mortgage rates on your own. If you’re unsure about what to do, your lender can offer advice and provide support with the switching process.
If you prefer to switch mortgage rates yourself, here are the 3 key steps:
1. Find a new mortgage rate that suits you 
When choosing a new mortgage rate, think about what’s important to you, such as:
a lower interest rate 
an interest rate you can fix, so you know how much you’re paying each month 
flexibility and the ability to make overpayments to help you pay your mortgage off faster 
Here are some useful tools to help you choose a mortgage.
2. Switch mortgage rates 
Switching is usually quite simple. Most banks and building societies allow you to switch mortgage rates online or over the phone (although you will not receive advice if you switch online and may not do so if you switch over the phone). As your current lender already has your details on file, a credit check is often not needed. No legal work is required either, so you won’t need a solicitor or licensed conveyancer.
You may want to shop around to understand how your current lender’s offers compare to those from other providers. It’s a good idea to do this a couple of months before you’re ready to switch.
3. Confirm your choice of mortgage rate 
Before you switch, you’ll be given a new mortgage offer by your provider, containing all you need to know about the new rate and how to accept it. You should read this carefully.
How much does it cost to switch your mortgage rate? 
There may be costs involved when switching mortgage rates. For example, if you’re planning on leaving a fixed-rate mortgage before the fixed-term ends, you may have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). The details of any ERC payable will be in your original mortgage offer.
Some lenders can charge a product fee for switching to certain mortgage rates. But they should let you know if there are any fees or other costs, when you’re ready to switch rates.
How long does it take to switch? 
Once you’ve decided which mortgage rate you’d like to switch to, it can be done relatively quickly. For example, at HSBC, some people are able to switch mortgage rates overnight.
The time it takes can vary between lenders and it can take longer for more complex cases.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Switch your HSBC mortgage rate 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Mortgages explained 
Should you remortgage? 
How to pay your mortgage off early\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/how-to-switch-mortgage-rates/
########Top of main content 
Should you remortgage? 
Remortgaging allows you to find a better deal, reduce your monthly payments and save money. But is now a good time to remortgage your home? 
There are a number of reasons why you may want to move your mortgage from one lender to another – and understanding these can help you decide if it’s the right time. 
5 reasons you may look to remortgage:
Your current mortgage rate is coming to an end 
You want to find a better deal 
You’re looking for a higher standard of service 
You want to borrow more 
The value of your home has increased 
1. Your current mortgage rate is coming to an end 
When your existing mortgage rate ends, you’ll usually move onto your lender’s standard variable rate (SVR). This can be more expensive than your current rate so your monthly mortgage payments may increase.

To avoid paying more, you could switch mortgage rates with your current lender or remortgage to a new lender in readiness for when your current mortgage rate finishes. It’s a good idea to start researching your options at least 6 months beforehand so your new deal or mortgage can start as your current one ends.
2. You want to find a better deal 
You may find a lower rate that could reduce your monthly payments, meaning you could pay less interest over the term of your mortgage. A better deal for you could also mean finding one that allows you to overpay or change your mortgage term.
There may also be other reasons to change your mortgage that are specific to you. You can speak to a mortgage advisor if you need help or support.
Keep in mind, if you remortgage before your current deal ends you may have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) and other fees. If you decide to do this, make sure any potential savings outweigh the potential charges. Alternatively, you can avoid these fees by waiting until your current deal ends before remortgaging. 
3. You’re looking for a higher standard of service 
If you’re not satisfied with your current lender, you may consider remortgaging to a new provider. For example, you may want:
better communication 
easier access to your accounts 
higher standards of financial advice 
great customer service 
It’s important to be happy with your mortgage provider. However, you’ll need to think carefully about when you move to a new lender, as there may be fees or charges to pay if you leave before your current mortgage rate ends.
4. You want to borrow more 
You may want to borrow extra money against your home. This could be for many reasons, such as wanting to carry out home improvements or fund further education. If your current lender is unable to increase the amount you want to borrow or offer you the deal you want, you can speak to another lender to see if they can help.
Keep in mind – your payments could increase if you borrow more, so you need to be sure you can afford them.
5. The value of your home has increased 
If the value of your home has gone up, you could benefit from a lower loan-to-value (LTV) ratio. The LTV is your outstanding mortgage amount in relation to the value of the property, shown as a percentage.
Having a lower LTV could mean you are eligible for lower rates. You can contact your lender to find out what your LTV ratio currently is and, if it has changed, what new interest rate options are available to you. If your current lender is not able to offer a deal you want, you can then see what other lenders can provide.
When shouldn’t you remortgage? 
Remortgaging is not suitable for everyone and it may not be the right time for you. Here are some reasons why you might hold off remortgaging.
The remortgaging costs outweigh the savings 
You need to think carefully about remortgaging and consider all costs before deciding if remortgaging is financially worthwhile for you. For example, if you need to pay a large early repayment fee to leave your current deal, it may be worth waiting until your existing mortgage rate comes to an end.
You’ve experienced credit problems 
When remortgaging, your new lender will need to see proof of earnings and complete a full credit check to make sure you can afford the payments. Lenders are more likely to offer you a mortgage if they can see you’re reliable at borrowing and repaying money. 
If you’ve had credit problems, such as missed payments, since taking out your last mortgage, it can show up on your credit file and lower your credit score. You may want to wait and improve your credit score before applying.
Your circumstances have changed 
It’s possible your financial situation may have changed since you took out your current mortgage. For example, you may be in between jobs, which can affect whether or not your application is accepted. 
Given the unique situations that many people are in, there have been some changes to how affordability is being assessed by mortgage providers. It’s important that, if your income has recently changed or you think it’s likely to change in the future, you include this in your application.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Remortgage to HSBC 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is remortgaging and how does it work? 
How to switch mortgage rates 
How to pay your mortgage off early\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/should-you-remortgage/
########Top of main content 
Could climate change impact your mortgage application? 
From flooding to coastal erosion – some properties are more at risk from climate change than others. But what does it mean for your mortgage? 
Many lenders are now considering the risks associated with the impacts of climate change when deciding whether or not to lend against a property. 
Here, we look at the factors lenders, including HSBC, may take into account when considering whether a property offers suitable security for a mortgage.
How could a property be affected by climate change? 
Flooding 
According to the Environment Agency, the UK is experiencing more frequent flooding – with 5.2 million properties (that’s roughly 1 in 6) at risk in England alone.11 View source 1
As well as increased temperatures, the UK has been on average 6% wetter over the last 30 years (1991 to 2020) than the preceding 30 years (1961 to 1990).22 View source 2 
When purchasing a property, your solicitor or licensed conveyancer may carry out an environmental search to check for any issues with flooding that might affect the property’s value.
If you have specific questions about flooding, you can also visit the National Flood Forum National Flood Forum This link will open in a new window website – a charity set up to help people who live in areas at risk of flooding. 
You can also get support from the Flood Re scheme Flood Re scheme This link will open in a new window – a joint initiative between the Government and insurers – designed to make it easier for people in flood-risk areas to get affordable insurance.
Coastal erosion 
Coastal erosion is the loss or displacement of land, due to wind, waves and tides. 
With extreme weather and rising sea levels, more properties will be at risk of complete loss of value due to coastal erosion.
Landslide 
A landslide is the movement of rock, debris or soil down a slope. It can be caused by various things, including heavy rainfall or drought, which makes the land unstable. 
If this appears to be happening on or near the property, it’s important to let your mortgage lender and insurance company know. 
You should also seek specialist advice from a structural surveyor or geologist, for example, especially if you plan on starting any major building or drainage work.
Subsidence and sinkholes 
Subsidence and sinkholes occur when the ground underneath a property collapses or sinks, reducing the value of property and land. 
Soil expands in wet weather and contracts in dry weather. With climate change causing wetter winters and drier summers, the soil beneath our homes can become unstable.
Sometimes, the foundations can sink – putting a strain on the structure of the building and causing cracks to appear. While there has been an increase in subsidence claims in recent years, buildings can experience minor cracking without there being a subsidence problem.33 View source 3 
Bear in mind, properties built near large trees (where the roots disturb the soil) or on top of old mining quarries, can also be susceptible to subsidence and sinkholes. When purchasing a property, your solicitor or licensed conveyancer will advise you whether a mining search is needed. 
How could climate change affect my mortgage application? 
When you apply for a mortgage, your lender will usually arrange a valuation of the property for mortgage purposes. This valuation confirms to the lender whether or not the property value is sufficient to support the mortgage amount requested.
The outcome of the mortgage valuation can affect how much you could borrow against the property.
At the same time, many lenders are now completing further checks to assess whether or not a property is at risk due to climate change. 
The outcome of these checks can affect whether or not they will lend against that property, regardless of the outcome of the mortgage valuation.
As a result of these checks, it can be harder to get a mortgage on a property that’s at a ‘high risk’ of being impacted by climate change – especially if it’s uninsurable, due to continuous flooding or the land being unstable, for example. 
What you can do before you apply for a mortgage 
Before you apply for mortgage, or borrow more on your existing mortgage – it’s important to consider if the property could be at risk of climate change. 
If you’re concerned that the property could be at risk, you may want to instruct a surveyor to complete an in-depth survey of the property – rather than rely on the lender’s own valuation.
Keep in mind – most lenders, including HSBC, make it a condition of your mortgage that you take out and maintain buildings insurance for the term of the mortgage. 
If your lender considers the property to be at risk from the effects of climate change, they may also ask you to confirm you have suitable cover in place. 
You may also be asked to provide evidence of your insurance cover each year until you repay your mortgage. 
1GOV.UK: Environmental Agency GOV.UK: Environmental Agency This link will open in a new window
2Met Office Met Office This link will open in a new window
3Association of British Insurers (ABI) Association of British Insurers (ABI) This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How does conveyancing work? 
What insurance do you need for a mortgage? 
What is a Decision in Principle?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/could-climate-change-impact-your-mortgage-application/
########Top of main content 
What are the different types of mortgages? 
One of the most important things to consider when buying a property is the type of mortgage you take out. 
The best mortgage for you will depend on your circumstances, future plans and whether you’re choosing to live in, or rent out, the property. 
A mortgage is a long-term agreement. It’s important to take time to think about what you want, and how much you’ll be able to afford. 
Here's a quick guide to some of the different types of mortgages, so you can find one that suits you.
Different types of mortgages 
Fixed-rate mortgages 
A fixed-rate mortgage will mean your monthly payments should stay the same until an agreed date, no matter what happens to interest rates in the market. 
Fixed-rate periods come in various different lengths, for example, 2, 3 and 5 years.
Tracker mortgages 
Tracker mortgages follow the Bank of England’s Base Rate and rise or fall along with it. The interest rate charged is the Bank of England’s Base Rate plus an agreed margin. There are ‘lifetime’ trackers for the life of the mortgage, and term trackers which may be for 2 or 3 years.
HSBC currently offers term trackers.
Standard variable rate (SVR) mortgages 
The SVR is the rate of interest that’s usually charged once a fixed rate or term tracker period ends. You can usually move to another fixed or tracker product instead of moving onto a SVR, if you wish. 
Some lenders may also let you take out a mortgage on their SVR. Your lender decides the rate and may decide to increase or decrease it over the period of your mortgage.
Currently, customers can’t apply for an SVR mortgage with HSBC.
Understanding your repayment options 
When deciding on a mortgage, you also have payment choices to make:
capital repayment 
interest-only 
These options need to be considered carefully.
What is a capital repayment mortgage? 
With a capital repayment mortgage, the monthly repayments include an element which repays the borrowed capital, as well as a payment for the monthly interest of the loan. 
With this repayment method, you can ensure your mortgage is fully paid off at the end of the mortgage period.
What is an interest-only mortgage? 
With an interest-only mortgage, your monthly payment only covers the interest charged on your loan for that month, so the amount you owe in capital doesn’t reduce over time. 
You'll need to demonstrate to the lender that you’ll have some way of paying off the debt in the future (such as an investment or a second property you could sell). Interest-only mortgages are commonly chosen when you’re buying to let.
95% mortgages 
A 95% loan to value (LTV) mortgage allows buyers to contribute a 5% deposit. If eligible, this means you could potentially borrow up to 95% of your property’s value or the purchase price (whichever is lower).
Landlord buy-to-let mortgages 
If you’re buying a property to rent out, you’ll need a buy-to-let mortgage. A buy-to-let investment can be a big commitment, so it’s important to consider the costs, risks and responsibilities of becoming a landlord.
Help and support 
We have a range of mortgage calculators to help make things simpler for you, from finding a mortgage to calculating the impact of an interest rate change on your repayments.
If you’d like advice on which mortgage may be suitable for you, our mortgage advisors are here to help. They’ll review your financial situation and provide suggestions and recommendations, based on the information you provide.
Your property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Mortgages explained 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How much could you borrow? 
Ways to help you get a mortgage 
Getting a mortgage when self-employed\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/types-of-mortgages/
########Top of main content 
What is Stamp Duty? 
Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT) is a type of tax you may have to pay if you buy a home, or a piece of land, in England or Northern Ireland. 
How much tax you’ll pay depends on:
Which part of the UK you’re buying in 
Whether you’re a first-time buyer 
Whether you’re buying additional properties 
The value of the property 
Buying in Scotland or Wales? 
The Scottish and Welsh equivalents of SDLT are:
Land and Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) in Scotland 
Land Transaction Tax (LTT) in Wales 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
When do you have to pay Stamp Duty? 
Stamp Duty is typically charged on any transaction that involves an exchange of property. For example, when you buy:
A freehold property 
A new, or existing leasehold property 
A share of a property through a shared ownership scheme 
Any commercial property 
A buy-to-let property 
If the property is under a certain price (threshold), there is no SDLT to pay. You may also be entitled to a discount (tax relief), if you’re a first-time buyer, for example.
If you’re buying a property in England or Northern Ireland, you have 14 days from completion, to pay your Stamp Duty bill through HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC). In Scotland and Wales, you’ll have 30 days to make the equivalent payment. 
If you have a solicitor or licensed conveyancer, they’ll usually collect the money from you in advance and file a return for you. However, you’re still responsible for making sure it’s paid on time and will be charged a penalty if it isn’t. 
How much is Stamp Duty? 
The total amount of Stamp Duty you’ll pay for properties in England and Northern Ireland is cumulative. 
You'll have to pay the rate of Stamp Duty for each segment of the property’s value according to these percentages.
Buying your first property
First-time buyers (buyers who have never owned a property, or part of a property, anywhere else in the world) get a special discount on their Stamp Duty. This means there’s no tax on the first £425,000 of the property price, as long as it's below £625,000. If the property value is above £625,000, then there is no discount.
SDLT rates 
Property price
Percentage taxed
£0 to £425,000
	0%
	
£425,001 to £625,000	5%
	
SDLT rates 
Property price
£0 to £425,000
£0 to £425,000
	
Percentage taxed
0%
0%
	
	
Property price
£425,001 to £625,000 £425,001 to £625,000	
Percentage taxed
5%
5%
	
If the price is over £625,000, you follow the rules for people who’ve bought a home before.
Buying a new property that will be your only home
SDLT rates 
Property price
Percentage taxed
£0 to £250,000	0%
	
£250,001 to £925,000
	5%
	
£925,001 to £1,500,000
	10%
	
Over £1,500,001
	12%
	
SDLT rates 
Property price
£0 to £250,000 £0 to £250,000	
Percentage taxed
0%
0%
	
	
Property price
£250,001 to £925,000
£250,001 to £925,000
	
Percentage taxed
5%
5%
	
	
Property price
£925,001 to £1,500,000
£925,001 to £1,500,000
	
Percentage taxed
10%
10%
	
	
Property price
Over £1,500,001
Over £1,500,001
	
Percentage taxed
12%
12%
	
So, if you were buying a property worth £260,000, you would pay:
0% of the value below £250,000 = £0 
5% of the value between £250,001 and £260,000 = £500 
Total Stamp Duty payable = £500 
Buying additional properties
If you’re buying a second home in England or Northern Ireland, the rates for additional properties are higher.
SDLT rates 
Property price
Percentage taxed
£0 to £250,000	3%
	
£250,001 to £925,000
	8%
	
£925,001 to £1,500,000
	13%
	
Over £1,500,001
	15%
	
SDLT rates 
Property price
£0 to £250,000 £0 to £250,000	
Percentage taxed
3%
3%
	
	
Property price
£250,001 to £925,000
£250,001 to £925,000
	
Percentage taxed
8%
8%
	
	
Property price
£925,001 to £1,500,000
£925,001 to £1,500,000
	
Percentage taxed
13%
13%
	
	
Property price
Over £1,500,001
Over £1,500,001
	
Percentage taxed
15%
15%
	
For more information, visit GOV.UK: SDLT GOV.UK: SDLT This link will open in a new window
How much is SDLT for non-UK residents? 
If you buy a residential property in England or Northern Ireland, and you’re not a UK resident – you’ll need to pay a surcharge of 2%.
This means SDLT rates are 2% higher on properties bought by non-UK residents, compared to UK residents. The surcharge doesn’t apply to purchases of land or buildings in Scotland or Wales. 
This additional 2% surcharge applies to purchases of both freehold and leasehold properties and is on top of all residential rates of SDLT, including zero rates. For example, there are no exemptions for first-time buyers or if the property is priced under the SDLT threshold. 
It also increases the SDLT payable on rents on the grant of a new lease.
For more information, visit GOV.UK: SDLT for non-UK residents GOV.UK: SDLT for non-UK residents This link will open in a new window
Land and Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT) – Scotland 
The total amount of LBTT you’ll pay for properties in Scotland is cumulative.
Buying your first property
First-time buyers in Scotland don't pay any tax on the first £175,000 of the value of their property.
Buying a new property that will be your only home
LBTT rates 
Property price
Percentage taxed
£0 to £145,000
	0%
	
£145,001 to £250,000
	2%
	
£250,001 to £325,000
	5%
	
£325,001 to £750,000
	10%
	
Over £750,001
	12%
	
LBTT rates 
Property price
£0 to £145,000
£0 to £145,000
	
Percentage taxed
0%
0%
	
	
Property price
£145,001 to £250,000
£145,001 to £250,000
	
Percentage taxed
2%
2%
	
	
Property price
£250,001 to £325,000
£250,001 to £325,000
	
Percentage taxed
5%
5%
	
	
Property price
£325,001 to £750,000
£325,001 to £7\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/what-is-stamp-duty/
########Top of main content 
What is conveyancing and how does it work? 
Conveyancing is the legal process of transferring ownership of a property from one person to another. 
Conveyancing is a complicated process. Here, we answer some questions you may have:
What does a solicitor or licensed conveyancer do?
How to choose a solicitor or licensed conveyancer
How does the conveyancing process work?
How much does conveyancing cost?
Do you need a solicitor or licensed conveyancer when remortgaging?
How conveyancing works with HSBC
What does a solicitor or licensed conveyancer do? 
When you buy or sell a property, a solicitor or licensed conveyancer will handle the legal side of things. Among other tasks, they’ll typically:
check the legal title to the property 
provide legal advice 
manage the chain (if there is one) for exchange of contracts and completion 
collect and transfer money including Stamp Duty (if payable) 
carry out property searches (on behalf of the buyer) to check for any issues that might affect the property’s value 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript (PDF, 28KB) Download transcript (PDF, 28KB) This link will open in a new window 
What are property searches? 
Property searches are enquiries made by your solicitor or licensed conveyancer, to find out more about the property you want to buy. These include:
land registry searches – to ensure the seller is in a position to sell 
local authority searches – to check if there are any things that may affect the property, such as planning applications or proposals for road improvements 
Environment searches 
If the land has previously been used for another purpose, your mortgage lender may ask whether there is any contamination risk or other environmental risk. If there is, your conveyancer may arrange for an environmental search, which could show any remaining risks with the land.
How to choose a solicitor or licensed conveyancer 
When you buy or sell a property, you’ll be responsible for choosing your own solicitor or licensed conveyancer. 
If you’re using a mortgage broker, they may recommend one to you. If you choose a solicitor, they will need to be a conveyancing specialist, whereas all licensed conveyancers are specialist property lawyers.
Make sure you check their credentials and availability and compare different quotes. You could also ask family and friends for recommendations.
If you’re taking out a mortgage with HSBC, your chosen solicitor or licensed conveyancer will need to meet the following basic criteria to be able to act for us, as well as you:
Requirements for your solicitor or licensed conveyancer 
Mortgage amount
Number of partners in the firm*
Under £350,000
	
1 solicitor / licensed conveyancer / regulated managers 
	
£350,000 to £2 million
	2 or 3 solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers
	
Over £2 million
	4 or more solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers
	
Requirements for your solicitor or licensed conveyancer 
Mortgage amount
Under £350,000
Under £350,000
	
Number of partners in the firm*
1 solicitor / licensed conveyancer / regulated managers 
1 solicitor / licensed conveyancer / regulated managers 
	
	
Mortgage amount
£350,000 to £2 million
£350,000 to £2 million
	
Number of partners in the firm*
2 or 3 solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers
2 or 3 solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers
	
	
Mortgage amount
Over £2 million
Over £2 million
	
Number of partners in the firm*
4 or more solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers
4 or more solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers
	
*The firm must be registered with one of the following: Solicitors Regulation Authority (and must be accredited to The Law Society’s Conveyancing Quality Scheme) or The Law Society of Scotland or The Law Society of Northern Ireland or the Council for Licenced Conveyancers. All firms must have a minimum professional indemnity insurance cover of £2 million and for lending over £2 million, they must have professional indemnity insurance of £5 million.
England and Wales: 
Solicitor Regulations Authority (SRA) regulated firms must be Conveyancing Quality Scheme (CQS) accredited 
all Council of Licensed Conveyancer (CLC) regulated firms can act for HSBC 
Scotland and Northern Ireland: 
all Scottish and Northern Ireland solicitor regulated firms can act for HSBC 
Additional checks and requirements also apply.
How does the conveyancing process work? 
If you’re buying a property in England or Wales: 
It’s a good idea to choose a solicitor or licensed conveyancer in the early stages of buying your own home – as soon as you’re ready to make an offer. 
If you’re applying for a mortgage, your lender will ask for their contact details and make sure your chosen conveyancer meets their criteria. 
When your lender has approved your mortgage application, they’ll send your solicitor or licensed conveyancer a copy of the mortgage offer. 
Your solicitor or licensed conveyancer will then carry out the legal work, including property searches. They’ll liaise with the seller’s conveyancer to resolve any enquiries they may have. 
Signed contracts are exchanged and a completion date is set. Completion is when the purchase funds are transferred to the seller’s solicitor or licensed conveyancer and the sale is complete. 
If you’re selling a property in England or Wales: 
Once you accept a buyer’s offer on your property, you’ll need to get a solicitor or licensed conveyancer to carry out the legal work. They'll request your property title deeds and obtain a copy of your legal title from the Land Reg\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/property-searches/
########Top of main content 
Timeline for buying a home 
From starting your property search to completing – buying a property in the UK, on average, takes around 6 months11 view footnote 1 but many factors are at play. Your financial situation, the property you want to buy, and the seller’s circumstances can all have an impact. 
Our step-by-step guide gives a rough idea of the timeframes involved.
1. Applying for a Decision in Principle: 24 hours 
A Decision in Principle gives you an indication of how much you could borrow. It’s best to do this before you start house hunting, so you know you’re looking at properties you can afford.
You can typically get a Decision in Principle on the same day you apply. Many lenders let you apply online and give you an instant decision. 
2. Finding a home and making an offer: varies 
The time it takes to find a property varies, from a few weeks to several months. It’s important to take your time and research your chosen area to ensure you make the right choice. 
Once you’ve found a property, the next step in England, Northern Ireland and Wales is to make an offer, typically through an estate agent. The estate agent should confirm when you’ll hear back from them.
In Scotland, you must instruct a solicitor who will help you prepare a bid for the property. As you can become legally committed to buying the property when your bid is accepted, you need to ensure that you have a Decision in Principle and are ready to proceed with a mortgage application.
3. Formally applying for a mortgage: up to 2 weeks 
Once you’ve had an offer accepted on a property, you can apply to turn the Decision in Principle into a potential mortgage offer. 
In most cases, it typically takes up to a couple of weeks – from completing an application to receiving a formal mortgage offer. However, in some circumstances, it could take longer. You can help speed up this stage by making sure you have all the relevant documents ready. 
The process involves detailed checks of your finances, and the lender will conduct its own mortgage valuation on the property you want to buy.
How long after a mortgage offer to completion? 
After you receive your mortgage offer, it can take around 12 weeks to complete on your property. Bear in mind – each property transaction is different and your journey to owning a home may take less, or more time, than outlined here.
4. Conveyancing: 6 to 12 weeks 
You’ll need to appoint a solicitor or licensed conveyancer to handle the legal aspects of the property purchase. 
If there are no issues or hold-ups, the conveyancing process can take around 6 weeks. But it could take a few months, particularly if you end up in a ‘chain’. 
A property chain is when there are a number of transactions that need to happen at the same time. For example, if you’re buying a home from someone, and they are buying another place – it can create a chain of buyers and sellers that need to move. 
5. Property survey: 2 to 3 weeks 
It’s a good idea to have your own survey of the property carried out to flag any potential problems. This is different from a mortgage valuation, which is carried out for the lender’s use only.
The survey itself should only take a few hours. Most surveyors will then produce a report within a couple of weeks before sending it to you. 
In Scotland, sellers must also provide a Home Report, containing an energy performance certificate, a survey and a property questionnaire. Once you or your solicitor has checked this, you can decide whether to make a bid. 
If your bid is accepted, contract details will be worked out. Your solicitor or licensed conveyancer will then exchange letters, known as ‘conclusion of missives’ with the seller’s solicitor. Once this process is completed, the deal is legally binding. In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, this isn’t the case until contracts are exchanged.
6. Exchange of contracts to completion: 1 to 4 weeks 
Once you have your mortgage offer and your solicitor or licensed conveyancer is happy with the results of searches, their enquiries of the seller and the legal title to the property, you’re ready to exchange contracts (please note the process is different in Scotland). 
If you’re in a chain, the other buyers and sellers have to be ready too. If not, there may be a delay.
Your solicitor or licensed conveyancer will exchange contracts with the seller’s conveyancer, and you’ll hand over your deposit for the house. The agreement is now legally binding, and you’ll need buildings insurance in place at this point. 
As part of exchanging contracts, a completion date will be agreed. The time it takes to complete is agreed between you and the seller. Completion dates are often set 2 weeks after exchange, but it could be as little as 1 day. There may, however, be hold-ups if you're in a chain. 
On the date of completion, you should be able to pick up the keys to your new home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
1Source: HomeOwners Alliance HomeOwners Alliance This link will open in a new window
Did you find this article useful? 
Yes 
No 
Please tell us why. 
Too complicated 
Not enough information 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Explore HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Steps to buying your own home 
What you need to apply for a mortgage 
Getting a mortgage when self-employed\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/timeline-for-buying-a-home/
########Top of main content 
What are the government’s home ownership schemes? 
You may be able to get financial support from the government to help you buy a home, with an affordable home ownership scheme. 
You could get a loan to help you:
buy a new-build property if you’re a first-time buyer (Help to Buy: Equity Loan) 
buy a proportion of your home (shared ownership) 
There are also schemes for:
council tenants (Right to Buy) 
housing association tenants (Right to Acquire) 
You can no longer open a Help to Buy ISA. If you weren’t able to open a Help to Buy ISA before the deadline, there are other savings options available, including different types of ISAs and savings accounts.
Help to Buy: Equity Loan 
Please note HSBC does not participate in this scheme.
The Help to Buy: Equity Loan scheme will close to new applications at 18:00 on 31 October 2022.
The government will lend you up to 20% of the equity of a new-build home (up to 40% in London). You will need a 5% deposit and a mortgage of up to 75% to make up the rest (up to 55% in London). 
There's an interest-free period for the first 5 years. After this, you’ll need to pay interest on the loan and, if you sell the property, you’ll need to repay any outstanding amount.
The amount you pay back is worked out as a percentage of the market value. If the market value of your home goes up, so does the amount you owe on your equity loan. Likewise, if the value of your home falls, the amount you owe on your equity loan falls too.
Help to Buy: Equity Loan rules are different in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.
For more information, including eligibility requirements, visit GOV.UK: Help to Buy Equity Loan GOV.UK: Help to Buy Equity Loan This link will open in a new window. 
Shared ownership 
If you can’t get a mortgage to buy a property outright, a shared ownership scheme could enable you to buy a proportion of your home through a housing association. You then pay rent on the rest.
For example, if you bought a 50% share of a property valued at £100,000, then you would pay rent on the remaining £50,000.
Shared ownership gives you the flexibility to increase the share of the property that you own. Most providers will allow you to buy 100% of the property over time, however, there are some that do not allow this.
For more information, including eligibility requirements, visit GOV.UK: Shared ownership homes GOV.UK: Shared ownership homes This link will open in a new window. 
Right to Buy: buying your council home 
The Right to Buy scheme makes it possible for existing council tenants to buy their council home.
Take the ‘Own Your Home’ eligibility quiz ‘Own Your Home’ eligibility quiz This link will open in a new window or visit GOV.UK: Right to Buy GOV.UK: Right to Buy This link will open in a new window for more information.
Right to Acquire: buying your housing association home 
The Right to Acquire scheme makes it possible for existing housing association tenants to buy their rented home at a discount. 
For more information, including eligibility requirements, visit GOV.UK: Right to Acquire GOV.UK: Right to Acquire This link will open in a new window.
Forces Help to Buy scheme 
Similar to the Help to Buy equity Loan scheme, but available exclusively to regular members of the armed forces. 
Under this scheme, you can borrow up to 50% of your salary interest-free (limited at £25,000) to raise a deposit. 
For more information, including eligibility requirements, visit GOV.UK: Forces Help to Buy GOV.UK: Forces Help to Buy This link will open in a new window.
Back to top 
What next? 
How to save for a home deposit 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What's the difference between freehold and leasehold properties? 
Ways to help you get a mortgage 
Mortgage calculator: How much could you borrow?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/affordable-housing/
########Top of main content 
What is a Decision in Principle? 
A Decision in Principle is an indication from your mortgage lender of how much they may be willing to lend you for your mortgage. 
A Decision in Principle is sometimes also referred to as:
an Agreement in Principle 
a Mortgage in Principle 
a Mortgage Promise 
It’s not legally binding and the amount offered could change following a detailed assessment of your income and spending, credit rating and other factors.
A Decision in Principle may involve a soft credit search, but this does not affect your credit rating.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What factors are taken into account when you apply for a Decision in Principle? 
Factors that may be considered include:
debts, missed payments or arrears 
lack of consistency and discrepancies in your file 
not meeting your lender’s specific criteria 
Why do you need a Decision in Principle? 
A Decision in Principle makes it easier for you to start ‘shopping’ for a home. You’ll have a clear idea of what your budget is and you can show it to estate agents to prove you’re a serious buyer.
How long does a Decision in Principle last? 
This will be decided by your mortgage lender, however, they typically last anywhere between 60 to 90 days.
What happens after you receive a Decision in Principle? 
Once you’ve found somewhere you like, you may wish to make an offer on the property – up to the maximum value you can afford, based on your Decision in Principle. 
You must then go back to your mortgage lender and make a full mortgage application. If everything is satisfactory, your lender will make you an official mortgage offer.
The official mortgage offer tells you the amount you can borrow from your lender for your chosen property. Your mortgage lender will send a copy of your mortgage offer to your solicitor or licensed conveyancer.
Why might your mortgage offer differ from your Decision in Principle? 
This is typically because of the results of the affordability assessment or mortgage valuation. So, for example, if the value of the property is lower than your Decision in Principle.
How to apply for a Decision in Principle 
You can typically get a Decision in Principle on the same day you apply.
Many lenders let you apply online. This makes it easy for you to enter your details and set the terms of the mortgage you want. You can also receive a decision instantly.
The application process will be different for every lender. For example, some lenders may prefer you to complete an application over the phone or in branch.
You may need:
proof of income, such as payslips or bank statements 
two years’ worth of accounts, if you are self-employed 
proof of your current address 
proof of identity, such as a passport or driver’s licence 
Your property may be repossessed if you don’t keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Get a Decision in Principle 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How much could you borrow? 
Ways to help you get a mortgage 
What is Stamp Duty?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/what-is-decision-in-principle/
########Top of main content 
How to prepare for university 
Going off to university can mean independence, socialising and hard work. 
To make the transition as smooth as possible, we’ve put together tips on ways you can start preparing for university.
How to prepare for university 
Build up some savings before you goBuild up some savings before you go anchor to point 1 
Look at how to budget your moneyLook at how to budget your money anchor to point 2 
Open a student bank accountOpen a student bank account anchor to point 3 
Know the ins and outs of your student overdraftKnow the ins and outs of your student overdraft anchor to point 4 
Learn your course timetableLearn your course timetable anchor to point 5 
Consider insuranceConsider insurance anchor to point 6 
Pay down your student debtPay down your student debt anchor to point 7 
Ask for helpAsk for help anchor to point 8 
1. Build up some savings before you go 
Try saving some money over the summer before you start university. This can help you stock up on course supplies or other necessities if you’re waiting on your student loan to come through.
If you have an amount in mind, our savings goal calculator can help you see how long it would take you to reach your target.
2. Look at how to budget your money 
Creating a budget can help you to stay on top of your cash flow. You’ll be able to see what you have coming in, what you need to pay for, and anything you have left over.
Our budget planning tool can help you get started. 
We have more mobile money management tools in our app to help you keep an eye on your spending and stay on top of your finances.
3. Open a student bank account 
Opening a student bank account can give you somewhere to keep your money. You’ll usually get access to other features as well, like online and mobile banking.
Some student accounts come with incentives, which you can make the most of. But it’s important to check the account suits your needs.
Explore: Financial education for young adults
4. Know the ins and outs of your student overdraft 
If you’ve opened a student current account, your bank may have offered you an interest-free student arranged overdraft. But before you start spending, make sure you understand everything to do with your student overdraft. This includes when you’ll need to pay the money back and what happens when you graduate.
5. Learn your course timetable 
Managing your own time is important. From lectures to study time and hanging with friends, there's plenty to do. Learning your course timetable can help you make sure you’re attending all your classes. 
It’s handy to look up how you'll get to your lectures in advance, so you know how long it'll take and you don’t run the risk of being late. Check out which buses you can get, or a route you can walk. If you’re planning to drive, look at the options for parking.
6. Consider insurance 
It’s likely you’ll be setting off to uni with a laptop, TV and a number of other possessions and gadgets. Taking out insurance can provide some peace of mind that, if something were to happen to them, you'll be covered.
7. Pay down your student debt 
It’s important to make sure you borrow what you need while you're at university, so make a budget early. Once you graduate, and your income is over the threshold amount, you’ll begin paying the student loan back. If you're not working, or if your salary is below the earning threshold, your repayments will stop.
Remember this loan is written off after 30 or 40 years, depending on which plan you're on which plan you're on This link will open in a new window.
If you do still decide to pay off your student loan early, you can do this either as a lump sum or by paying more than the minimum payments. 
Explore: Paying off student loan early
8. Ask for help 
Whether it’s too much coursework, not enough time to study, or you need support with your finances, asking for help is important. Speaking up can help make the situation more manageable and you may be able to find a solution.
Speak to your university about any services they have available to support you. 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
How to budget as a student 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Student finances: 5 things you need to know 
How to improve your credit score as a student 
Student hub – hints and tips for university\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/university-survival-tips/
########Top of main content 
Student banking: what do you need to know? 
Choosing the right student bank account for your time at university can help you make the most of your money. From linked overdrafts to credit cards, here’s what to look for. 
What is a student bank account? 
A student bank account is like a regular bank account that has been specifically designed for people in higher education.
Student bank accounts usually offer incentives like:
vouchers 
railcards 
cash back 
cash rewards for opening the account 
Incentives for opening an account may sway your initial thinking, but it pays to check what else you’ll get with the account to help you manage your money throughout your studies. For example, an interest-free arranged overdraft could give you an additional buffer. 
Other things to consider include tools and features that may come with an account, for:
making payments 
using cash machines (including any associated charges at home and/or outside the UK) 
keeping track of what you’ve spent and how much you have left 
It’s also worth thinking about how accessible you want your bank to be. Do you want to be able to talk to someone face-to-face in a branch, on the phone or via chat, for example, as well as do your day-to-day banking online? Or are you happy with a purely digital relationship?
Can you have 2 student bank accounts? 
You may only be able to have 1 student bank account. It should be outlined in the terms and conditions of your account about opening multiple accounts. If you’re unsure, speak to your bank.
How does a student overdraft work? 
An arranged overdraft is a way of borrowing money through your current account. Banks will often charge a fee for this, as well as interest on what you’ve borrowed.
However, student bank accounts often provide overdrafts that don’t charge interest or fees - as long as you stay within your agreed overdraft limit.
Limits for student overdrafts may change depending on what year of study you’re in.
Keep in mind, student overdrafts may be interest-free while you’re a student but you’ll need to pay the money back, with possible interest, once you graduate.
Some graduate accounts may allow you to continue with an interest-free overdraft amount for a set time.
Student credit cards 
Having a credit card can enable you to spread costs – essentially buying something today and paying it off at a later date or in instalments. Used wisely, a credit card can help you build a healthy credit score and give you payment protection when you spend between £100 and £30,000 under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act.
You’ll have a credit limit – a set amount you’re allowed to spend on the card – and you’ll get a statement every month with a list of your transactions. If you repay the full amount within that agreed timeframe, you won’t have to pay interest on your purchases.
However, if you’re unable to repay the full amount, you’ll be charged interest - and this can quickly add up. Before taking out a credit card, it’s important to check what the interest rate is, as this will impact how much you need to repay. You could also be charged a fee if you go over your credit limit, use your card outside the UK or make a late payment.
So, while credit cards can be a useful way to spread cost, cover emergencies and improve your credit rating if used in the right way, they’re not necessarily for everyone.
Back to top 
What next? 
View our HSBC Student Bank Account 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Student hub - hints and tips for university 
Understanding your student overdraft 
Budgeting for student life\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/student-banking-need-to-knows/
########Top of main content 
What is student insurance? 
If your son or daughter is heading off to uni or college, student insurance can help protect their belongings while they’re away from home. So, if their laptop went missing or their digs got flooded, they’d be covered. 
Does your child need student insurance? 
With the contents of an average student room worth more than £3,00011 view footnote 1, it’s worth considering student cover. Computers and entertainment equipment can be expensive to replace if lost, damaged or targeted by thieves.
In rented accommodation, buildings insurance should be covered by the landlord but insurance for your son or daughter’s belongings usually won’t be.
University halls may offer contents insurance as part of the rent. If so, you’ll need to check their policy to see if it's suitable.
If they’re moving into shared accommodation, each housemate will need their own shared-house contents insurance policy.
Are they covered by your home insurance policy? 
Some home contents policies provide around £5,000 worth of cover for items you ‘temporarily remove from home’. This could include items your son or daughter takes to their student accommodation, provided they move back home outside of term time.

It’s always best to check this in your policy documents, plus:
the excess for making a claim 
whether your no-claims bonus (if you have one) would be impacted by any claims 
any exclusions that might not suit a student lifestyle 
Explore: How much home insurance do you need?
What are the different types of student insurance? 
HSBC doesn’t offer specific student insurance, but if you’re looking to buy a policy (separate from your home insurance), here are some of the levels of cover available.
Basic cover 
The most basic student contents insurance policy will generally cover items in a student house or halls, such as clothes, TV and non-portable desktop computers. However, it may not provide cover when they’re out – if their laptop is stolen from a café or on the way to a lecture, for example.
Personal protection and gadget insurance 
To protect their possessions when they’re out, you’ll need to look at adding personal protection or gadget insurance to their policy. You can also choose to add cover for accidental damage to computers, or bike cover – if they’re taking their bike to uni.
Most insurers will offer flexible options, so you can tailor the cover to suit your son or daughter’s needs. For example, you may want to cover specific items or include everything they’re taking with them.
You should read the full terms and conditions of any insurance policy before you purchase it. Again, consider any excess that you’ll need to pay and if there are any exclusions in the policy.
1 Source: Aviva
HSBC Home Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Exclusions and terms and conditions apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Home Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to save money on your home insurance 
What to consider when buying insurance 
Do you need mobile phone insurance?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/do-you-need-student-insurance/
########Top of main content 
How to budget as a student 
Budgeting for university can help you stay on top of your finances. 
From food bills to course materials and transport, here are some tips on how to budget and save money as a student. 
How to plan a budget 
Creating a budget can help you see what you have coming in and going out, and if you’ll have any money left over each month. Use our budget planning tool to help.
Your income may include:
your student loan 
any grants, bursaries, sponsorships or scholarships you're eligible for 
salary from a job 
money from parents 
Your outgoings may include:
tuition fees 
rent for accommodation 
household bills, such as gas and electricity, water and broadband 
transport costs 
food 
course materials 
It’s worth taking expensive periods, like Christmas and holidays, into account as well as one-off purchases, such as a laptop. Make sure to include some money for the occasional treat too, and anything you want to save for.
Tips on managing your outgoings 
Your student loan is usually paid into your bank account at the start of each term (or monthly in Scotland). But remember, that money needs to last – so think about your spending over the longer term. Looking for ways to reduce your outgoings and save money can help keep your budget on track. 
Find out what your spending personality is, so you can stay on top of your outgoings.
How to save money on food shopping: 
buy food in bulk (where possible) and batch cook meals for the coming week – to help you resist the temptation to splash out on takeaways 
freeze any food you don't use so nothing goes to waste 
instead of just food shopping for yourself, see if you can do a group shop with your housemates 
look for reduced items at the supermarket 
make packed lunches instead of going to the campus canteen every lunchtime 
Explore: How to save money at the supermarket
How to save money on course materials: 
head to the university library to see if you can borrow the book you need, but remember, if you take the book out, you'll need to return it on time to avoid any late fees 
if you need to buy a book, many universities have second-hand book sales 
How to save money on tech and appliances: 
find out what your halls or private accommodation has available 
if you have your own printer, print in black and white and on both sides of the page to save on ink and paper 
use reputable software for cloud storage 
How to save money on transport: 
save a third on rail fares with the 16 to 25 Railcard 
save a third on standard and fully flexible coach fares with National Express Young Persons Coachcard 
get a discount on travel in London with the 18+ Student Oyster Photocard (you must live at a London address in term-time to be eligible) 
Remember to make the most of any student discounts available and TOTUM – the new name for NUS extra. 
Open a student bank account 
Opening a student bank account can help you manage your finances. You’ll be able to set up Direct Debits for your bills, and keep an eye on your spending. If you use mobile banking, you can check your balance on the go and receive notifications if your balance dips below a certain amount. 
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can also use Balance After Bills, in the HSBC Mobile Banking app on compatible devices. It shows you how much you could have left, once your bills (scheduled Direct Debits and standing orders) have been paid. 
We have more mobile money management tools in our app to help you keep an eye on your spending and stay on top of your finances. Not only could they help you keep within your budget and improve spending, they may also help you grow your money and achieve your financial goals.
Most banks offer student bank accounts, which may include an overdraft. It’s worth checking what happens if you go over your overdraft limit, and if there is a charge. 
Explore: Banking 101: Opening your first bank account
Some student bank accounts also come with a credit card, which can help pay for necessary expenses or give you protection on big-ticket items, but be careful not to overspend. Anything you buy on a credit card will need to be repaid.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Making your money go further at uni 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What does the rising cost of living mean for students? 
Borrowing money as a student 
Student finances: 5 things you need to know\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/budgeting-for-student-life/
########Top of main content 
Making your money go further at uni 
Getting on top of your finances can help you feel more in control of your money. 
We’ve put together 6 tips on how you can help stretch your budget a little bit more.
Look at where your money's going 
Shop wisely 
Seek out the best deals 
Use your freezer 
Stay on top of your money 
Ask for help 
1. Look at where your money's going 
Look at where you’re spending your money and try breaking this down into your ‘needs’ and ‘wants’. 
Your ‘needs’ might include your rent and bills, while your ‘wants’ could include eating out or clothes shopping. This can help you see where your money is going and where you could potentially make changes. 
Use our budget planner tool to help you break down your spending.
Remember – you don’t have to stop your ‘wants’ altogether. A budget just helps you prioritise your spending a little more. You may find you feel less guilty about spending on ‘wants’ if you’ve budgeted a bit of money for them.
Explore: Budgeting for student life
2. Shop wisely 
Before you hit the supermarket, try planning your meals for the week and check what items you already have. Not only will this help you create your shopping list, but it may help reduce food waste. 
It’s also a good idea to set yourself a budget for your shop and resist temptation to splurge at the checkout. 
Explore: How to save money at the supermarket
3. Seek out the best deals 
If you’re in shared accommodation, why not start a kitty for things like milk, toilet roll and butter? You may be able to make the most of any bulk-buy deals or eat together and split the cost of ingredients, for example. 
Being a student means you won’t need to pay Council Tax and may get discounts on things like broadband or phone contracts. If you’re not happy with your current rates, it’s worth shopping around.
Explore: How to manage your subscription services and save money
Watching what you spend doesn’t mean you have to stop having fun. Make the most of loyalty cards, discount vouchers and 2-for-1 deals where you can.
4. Use your freezer 
If you’re going to be busy studying, try batch cooking meals and freezing them. You can then defrost one quickly when you need it, without having to pay for a takeaway. 
5. Stay on top of your money 
Awareness is key when it comes to your spending and having an overview of your account will let you know what’s going on. Getting to grips with some of the key terms you may see when checking your account can help you stay in control of your finances. 
If you've been overspending, there are things you can try to get your budget back on track.
If you're an HSBC customer, you can get a clear picture of your finances and make payments through the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app (on compatible devices). 
You can also use features like Balance After Bills. It shows you how much money you could have left over, once scheduled bills (Direct Debits and standing orders) have been taken out. 
Explore: Managing your money with tech and tools
6. Ask for help 
If you’re struggling to stay on top of your finances or you’re feeling anxious about money, speaking to someone you trust can help. 
They may be able to help you with your budgeting or support you in finding assistance if you need it. Starting the conversation can feel difficult, but it can help make things a little easier. 
Explore: How to talk about money
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
University survival tips 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Student hub - hints and tips for university 
Budgeting for student life 
What does the rising cost of living mean for students?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/making-your-money-go-further-at-uni/
########Top of main content 
How to save money on groceries 
If you’re spending too much on your food shop, there are ways you can cut back to save money. 
Here are some tips to make sure your spending stays in control while out food shopping.
Ways to save money on groceries 
Make a shopping listMake a shopping list anchor to point 1 
Set a spending limitSet a spending limit anchor to point 2 
Shop at the right timesShop at the right times anchor to point 3 
Find the best dealsFind the best deals anchor to point 4 
Make the most of couponsMake the most of coupons anchor to point 5 
Do your food shopping onlineDo your food shopping online anchor to point 6 
1. Make a shopping list 
Before you head to the supermarket, sit down and plan your meals for the week. You’ll be able to write a list of everything you need – whether it’s ingredients or pre-made meals. Make sure you check your cupboards to see what you already have. Think about leftovers too – can they be saved for lunch the next day? 
A shopping list can help reduce the risk of you forgetting anything and, if you stick to it, may help curb those impulse purchases. 
Explore: Food shopping: how to save money and waste less
2. Set a spending limit 
Working out how much you have to spend on food alongside other costs can help you set yourself a spending limit. You could break this down weekly or monthly, or whenever you plan on buying your food.
Use our budget planner to help.
If you’ve opened a student current account, you may also have access to mobile or online banking on compatible devices, which can help you keep track of your money.
3. Shop at the right times 
Look out for reduced stickers and check out the reduced section to see if you can snap up a bargain. Some supermarkets start reducing items nearing their sell-by date in the evening – so it may be worth doing your food shop a bit later in the day if you’re able to.
4. Find the best deals 
Try different aisles in the supermarket to find the best deals. You’ll often see 2-for-1 deals, special offers and bulk buy discounts. There are also savings to be made on own brand products.
If you live in a share house or halls, see if any of your roommates want to split the cost of bulk buy items or deals.
5. Make the most of coupons 
Coupons can be a good way to help bring down the cost of your shopping. You may be able to find coupons to use online, or in any flyers sent out by shops. 
Some supermarkets may have loyalty cards you can use which build up points and convert into coupons. 
6. Do your food shopping online 
If you can’t trust yourself to stay away from impulse buys and other items, try doing your food shop online.
You’ll be able to follow your shopping list without straying and you can do it all from the comfort of your home. You may need to pay for the delivery of your shopping, so make sure to factor that into your budget.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Hints and tips for university 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What does the rising cost of living mean for students? 
Budgeting for student life 
Making your money go further at uni\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/how-to-save-money-at-the-supermarket/
########Top of main content 
Student overdrafts explained 
Whether you’re stocking up your fridge or getting uni supplies, a student overdraft could help if you’re low on funds. 
Before you start spending, it’s important to get to grips with everything your student overdraft entails. 
How does a student overdraft work? 
An overdraft is where you can spend more than what’s in your current account. This will be up to a set amount, and you may be charged interest for using it. Student overdrafts work in the same way but are usually interest-free.
If you’re unsure, it’s worth checking if you’ll be charged interest on using your student overdraft with your bank.
Explore: Student banking: what do you need to know?
How much can you borrow on your student overdraft? 
The amount you’ll be able to borrow will depend on who you bank with and your financial circumstances. Some banks may let you have up to £3,000 on your student overdraft, while others may set a lower limit.11 view footnote 1
There may also be limits depending on what year of study you’re in. For example, some banks may let you have a £1,000 student overdraft in your first year, which can be extended to £2,000 in your second year and £3,000 in your third year. This can vary between banks, so you’ll need to check this when applying for a student bank account. 
Again, if you’re unsure about your student overdraft limit, contact your bank. 
How to get a student overdraft 
To get a student overdraft, you’ll need to apply for a student current account. You’ll usually need to show your proof of acceptance onto a qualifying course, as well as your ID and proof of your address. Some banks may also have other criteria to be able to apply, so it’s worth checking with them first.
Some student bank accounts come with other introductory offers which you can make the most of when opening an account. However, while introductory offers can be great, it’s important to make sure the account is going to be right for you over the long term.
Tips for using your student overdraft: 
keep track of your spending through online or mobile banking 
don’t go over your arranged overdraft limit 
stay up-to-date with any changes to your current account or overdraft, including fees 
remember that anything you spend from your overdraft will need to be paid back 
How many student overdrafts can you have? 
Generally, you can just have one student overdraft. Some banks may also have it in their terms and conditions that you can only have one student bank account.
Having multiple student overdrafts may be difficult to manage. It may also increase your chances of getting into debt if you’re unable to pay them back. 
Can you increase your student overdraft? 
You may be able to extend your student overdraft limit after a certain period of time. This will depend on your bank, and they may take into consideration the way you’ve used the account. 
Should you increase your student overdraft? 
The important thing to remember when it comes to your student overdraft is that you’ll need to pay back anything you borrow. If you need the extra funds and you’re comfortable you can repay, then increasing your overdraft may be helpful.
Keep in mind, when you’re no longer a student you may incur interest if you still owe money on your overdraft. Also, extending your overdraft limit if you don’t need it may just increase the temptation to spend.
Explore: Borrowing money as a student
How do you know if you're nearing the limit of your overdraft? 
To make sure you’re not overspending on your student overdraft, you’ll need to be aware of your incomings and outgoings. You can use online or mobile banking to regularly review your account and check how much you’re spending. 
There are apps, which can help you monitor your money. You could check if your bank offers text alerts that send you a message if your balance drops below a certain amount.
What should you do if your degree is longer than 3 years? 
Make sure your bank knows when you’re graduating. This is especially important if you’ve extended your time studying through a change of course or by repeating a year. If you don’t, your student account may be changed to a graduate account, and you may be charged interest on your overdraft. 
When do you pay back your student overdraft? 
If your degree is coming to an end, you’ll need to look at paying back your student overdraft. You may be given a certain amount of time to pay this back by your bank, before being charged any overdraft interest. Make sure to check your student overdraft documentation or speak to your bank.
You may also want to consider switching to a graduate account. Your bank may automatically change your student bank account to a graduate account, but you should check this as it’s not always the case. 
Some graduate accounts charge 0% interest on overdrafts for a fixed period of time, giving you the opportunity to pay back your overdraft. Again, you’ll need to check this before switching. 
If you want to close your student account, you’ll need to have paid back your student overdraft before you’re able to.
Explore: How to repay debt
How to pay off your student overdraft 
Whether you’re wanting to pay your overdraft back while you’re studying or when you’ve left uni, there are some things you can do, such as:
plan a budget 
create a repayment plan for yourself 
reduce your overdraft limit (if you can afford to) 
If you’re finding your student overdraft unmanageable and are struggling to get out of it, there are ways you can get help. You could speak to a trusted family member or friend, your bank or seek professional advice.
Debt organisations may also be able to help, such as:
Citizens AdviceCitizens Advice This link will open in a new window 
National DebtlineNational Debtline This link will open in a new window 
StepChange Debt CharityStepChange Debt Charity This link will open in a new window 
Explore: How to get out of your overdraft
What next? 
If you can, you may want to build up\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/understanding-your-student-overdraft/
########Top of main content 
Borrowing money as a student 
Debt can feel like a negative thing, but it’s important to remember that not all debt is bad. 
For many people, it’s a part of everyday life and debt is only a problem when it becomes too much to manage.
If you’re a student, you may be looking at borrowing money to cover your tuition fees and living expenses. Here are some possible lending options to help you as a student.
How to borrow money as a student 
Student loans
Postgraduate loans
When do you start repaying your student loan?
When do you start paying interest on your student loan?
Student overdrafts
Consider a student credit card
Student loans 
During your time at university, you’ll have 2 main costs to cover – tuition fees and living expenses. A student loan may be available to help with both.
Tuition fees are usually paid directly to your course provider. These can often be much less if you’re on a placement year, or if you're studying abroad. 
A maintenance loan can help with living costs such as rent, food and transport. It's usually paid directly to you to manage.
If you’ve opened a student bank account, you can have your student maintenance loan paid into this. The amount you can get depends on your household income and where you’re studying.
Check if you’re eligible to apply for a student loan Check if you’re eligible to apply for a student loan This link will open in a new window.
Explore: How to prepare for university
Postgraduate loans 
If you want to study a Postgraduate Master’s Degree, there are different ways you can fund this:
bursaries and grants 
a studentship 
with a loan 
funding from your employer 
If you’re taking out a Postgraduate Master’s Loan to help with course fees and living costs, the amount you get will depend on when your course starts. The same applies to a Postgraduate Doctoral Loan.
Visit GOV.UK: Funding for postgraduate study GOV.UK: Funding for postgraduate study This link will open in a new window for more information, including eligibility criteria.
When do you start repaying your student loan? 
You’ll be expected to pay back your student loan after you’ve graduated and your income is over a certain amount. Keep in mind:
repayments will automatically be taken from your salary 
unlike other debts, repayments will stop if you lose your job 
the earliest you'll start repaying your student loan will be the April after you graduate 
depending on the student loan you have and where you studied, your loan may be cancelled after a certain amount of timecancelled after a certain amount of time This link will open in a new window 
You can make extra repayments or pay back your full loan early if you want to and can afford to.
When do you start paying interest on your student loan? 
Interest is charged from the day you start receiving the loan until it’s repaid in full, or cancelled.
While you’re studying, the interest rate is based on the UK retail price index (RPI) plus up to 3% depending on your income. 
The interest rate may change depending on when you started your course. Visit GOV.UK: Repaying your student loan GOV.UK: Repaying your student loan This link will open in a new window to find out more.
Student overdrafts 
Many student bank accounts may offer an interest-free arranged overdraft.
This agreement means you can spend more money than you have available in your account, up to a limit.
A student arranged overdraft limit will typically be between £1,000 and £3,000. This can vary depending on the bank and what year of study you’re in. If you’re unsure of your overdraft limit, contact your bank.
It’s important to check for any fees you might be charged if you go over your arranged overdraft limit. This is known as an unarranged overdraft.
You'll have to pay back the money in your student overdraft when you leave university. You may be given a fixed period of time to do this after graduating - your bank should be able to discuss this with you. 
If you need further advice, you may want to speak to the National Association of Student Money Advisers (NASMA) National Association of Student Money Advisers (NASMA) This link will open in a new window or your Students’ Union welfare team. They may be able to help.
Explore: Understanding your student overdraft
Consider a student credit card 
As a student, it’s unlikely you’ll have a long history of borrowing, so you may have a low credit score. This is what lenders use to help them determine whether to give you credit.
A student credit card could help you build up your credit rating, which could stand you in good stead for any future borrowing.
If you choose to take out a credit card and spend money on it, it’s important you never miss a repayment as it may harm your credit score.
Student credit cards typically have a low credit limit to help people avoid having too much debt. But you should aim to pay off your balance in full each month. This way, you won’t have to pay interest on what you owe.
Explore: How do credit cards work?
How to get help with debt 
If you need some support when it comes to your finances, there are places you can contact, such as:
NASMANASMA This link will open in a new window 
your bank 
Citizens AdviceCitizens Advice This link will open in a new window 
StepChangeStepChange This link will open in a new window 
National DebtlineNational Debtline This link will open in a new window 
RethinkRethink This link will open in a new window 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Borrowing money: Staying on top of debt 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Student hub - hints and tips for university 
Making your money go further at uni 
Student finances: 5 things you need to know\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/borrowing-money-as-a-student/
########Top of main content 
Should you get a student credit card? 
A student credit card can help cover unexpected costs and let you spend money before your loan comes in. 
But if you’re thinking of taking out a student credit card, here’s what to be aware of first.
Know your credit limit 
When you take out a student credit card, you’ll be given a credit limit. This is the maximum you can spend and owe on the card. Your credit limit will depend on a number of factors, including the provider and your financial history. 
It’s important to know your limit and not to go over it – as this could affect your credit score and mean you may have to pay extra fees and interest.
Think about how you’ll use a credit card 
You don’t need us telling you to be sensible, but be honest with yourself about how you might use your student credit card. Whether it’s for uni supplies, food or a round of drinks, you may find it tempting to spend more once you have the card. So make a plan for when you will and won’t use it.
You’ll need to pay back anything you spend on a credit card – and you don’t want to build up an amount of debt you’ll struggle to get rid of.
Make the repayments on time 
One of the most important questions when taking out a student credit card: can you afford to make the repayments? If you miss one, you could lose certain benefits or have to pay a late fee and this could affect your credit score.
With some student credit cards, you may have to pay the full balance each month, while others may only need you to repay a minimum amount. Paying back more than the minimum amount can help bring your debt down quicker. It can also reduce the amount of interest you pay, so it’s always worth trying to repay as much as possible. 
Explore: Tips for paying off your credit card
Build your credit history 
While you may not have much of a financial history yet, that doesn’t mean you can’t start building a good credit score for the future. 
A student credit card, used responsibly and with all repayments made on time, can make you more attractive to potential future lenders. 
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score
Get protection on bigger purchases 
If you plan on using a student credit card to pay for something costing between £100 and £30,000, you’ll be protected under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. This can be useful if a company fails to provide the goods or services agreed, for example, or if the goods or services were misrepresented.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Student Credit Card 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Budgeting for student life 
How to get your first credit card 
Making your money go further at uni\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/should-you-get-a-student-credit-card/
########Top of main content 
What does the rising cost of living mean for students? 
It can be hard for students to budget as living costs rise. 
Many students are finding their finances are stretched as they pay for tuition fees and increased rent.
Here, we share insights into how students have been affected by the rising cost of living, plus tips to help you manage your money and get support if you need it.
Rising costs taking their toll on student mental health 
In a study carried out by Sticky and Censuswide for HSBC1Footnote link 1, more than half (54%) of current students said their financial situation was having a negative impact on their mental health. 
The study surveyed 2,002 current and prospective university students in the UK. 
Almost half of them (43%) said they felt ‘stressed’ about their money situation, while 45% said they were losing sleep thinking about money. More than a quarter of (27%) believed money worries were affecting their grades.
Only 9% of students felt secure with their money situation.
Students changing universities because of financial worry 
Our research showed 44% of prospective students had changed their choice of university because they were worried how much it would cost. 
Many chose to stay closer to home to save money on accommodation. Being close to home was the most important factor for 30% of prospective students.
Tips to help you manage your money at uni 
Budget and save where you can 
More than half (55%) of current students say they’ve cut back on spending in the past 6 months because of the higher cost of living. 
Your student loan is usually paid into your bank account at the start of each term (or monthly in Scotland). But remember, that money needs to last – so think about your spending over the longer term. 
You can see what you have coming in and going out by creating a budget. That can also help you see if you'll have any money left over each month. You could use our budget planning tool to help. Keep your budget on track by looking for ways to reduce your outgoings.
Explore: How to budget as a student
Choose the right student bank account 
Choosing the right account for your time at university can help you make the most of your money. Your choice might depend on whether you want student overdrafts, perks or credit cards, for example. If you get a student bank account, they usually offer incentives, such as vouchers, railcards, and cash rewards for opening them. 
Find out more about student banking and what to look for.
Manage your money with tech and tools 
Money management tools can help make budgeting a whole lot easier. 
If you're an HSBC customer, you can get a clear view of your finances and make payments through the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
You can get notifications whenever you 
buy something 
a Direct Debit leaves your account 
your student loan comes in 
You can also use features like Balance After Bills. It shows you how much money you could have left over, once scheduled bills like Direct Debits and standing orders have been paid. 
Please note, our banking app only works on certain devices.
Help with money worries 
If you feel stressed and anxious about money, you’re not alone. Here are some ways you can get help.
Reach out to loved ones 
A third of those who took part in our survey (34%) felt like they couldn’t open up about their financial situation. Although it can feel awkward sometimes, talking about money can help take the weight off your mind. Try talking to someone you trust, such as a partner, family member or friend. 
Explore: How to talk about money
Speak to your GP 
If you’re experiencing challenges with your mental health and wellbeing, a healthcare professional, such as a doctor, can help. The NHS website NHS website This link will open in a new window is a good place to start.
You can also get help from charities, including:
Samaritans Samaritans This link will open in a new window
Mind Mind This link will open in a new window
Rethink Rethink This link will open in a new window
Anxiety UK Anxiety UK This link will open in a new window
Visit your students’ union 
Your students’ union can also help with any questions or worries you might have, including money matters. Student advisers are there to listen and can offer free and confidential help.
Contact your bank 
If you’re with HSBC and you’re worried about money, we can help.
For example, if you're anxious about your student overdraft or missing a credit card or loan repayment, call our team of specialists on 0800 085 2482.
Lines are open:
08:00 to 18:00, Monday to Friday
08:00 to 16:00, Saturday
Please note, lines aren’t open Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day. We accept calls via Text Relay. To help us improve our service, and in the interests of security, we may monitor or record your call.
If you think your mental health could be affecting the way you manage your money, there’s a range of services available. We also have broader accessibility support. And you might find this guidance useful if you’re feeling anxious about your finances.
Did you find this article useful? 
Yes 
No 
Please tell us your reason
Too complicated 
Not enough information 
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Student Bank Account 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Student hub – hints and tips for university 
Making your money go further at uni 
The rising cost of living 
About the survey 
Sticky and Censuswide carried out the research on behalf of HSBC UK. The sample size was 2,002 respondents – 1,002 university students (currently studying) and 1,000 prospective university students (going to university in September 2022 or September 2023). Fieldwork was undertaken from 20 to 30 May 2022. The survey was carried out online. The figures have been weighted and are representative of all UK adults (aged 16+).\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/students-and-the-rising-cost-of-living/
########Top of main content 
5 tips on managing money as a student 
Going to university may be your first experience of true independence. But alongside this new freedom comes the responsibility of managing your own finances. 
Here are 5 tips to help you manage your money – so you can make the most of your time at uni.
1. Budgeting can help you stay on top of your finances 
Whether you’re looking to give yourself a weekly food allowance or working out if you can treat yourself to some new jeans, creating a budget can help you make good financial decisions.
2. A student bank account often comes with other benefits 
Opening a student bank account can give you access to an arranged overdraft. If you have one, take some time to understand your student overdraft and the terms and conditions associated with it.
Some student bank accounts also come with a student credit card. If used wisely, a credit card could help you cover unexpected expenses and build a good credit score, but make sure you’re clear on the risks.
Explore: Should you get a student credit card?
3. Maintenance loans can help cover living expenses 
Maintenance loans are available from Student Finance Student Finance This link will open in a new window to help students cover the cost of living. The amount you can apply for The amount you can apply for This link will open in a new window depends on a few factors, including your family’s income, whether you live at home, and where your uni is based.
Explore: Borrowing money as a student
4. Make the most of student discounts 
Many discounts are available to you as a student, such as the 16-25 railcard, and money off certain shops with a National Union of Students (NUS) card.
5. Now is a good time to plan for your future 
Uni is the perfect time to set yourself goals and save some money for the future. Whether you’re planning to take a gap year once you’ve finished your degree or start saving for a deposit for a home, setting yourself a target can help make it more achievable.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Student hub: hits and tips for university 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Making your money go further at uni 
5 reasons to care about your credit score 
How to budget as a student\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/student-finance-need-to-knows/
########Top of main content 
How to improve your credit score as a student 
As a student, you may not have much of a credit history, but that doesn’t mean you can’t start building your credit score now. 
Here, you’ll find ways to build your credit score and develop good financial habits.
What is a credit score? 
If you’re applying for finance, lenders will calculate a credit score to see what products and rates you qualify for and what kind of borrower you are. Your credit score can change throughout your life, depending on your financial history and circumstances.
There are things that can positively and negatively affect your credit score. For example, missed loan payments could have a negative impact on your credit score, while being on the electoral roll can have a positive impact.
People with a higher credit score are often seen to be a lower risk to lend to, so looking after your credit score is important.
Do student loans affect your credit score? 
A student loan doesn’t affect your credit score. It also doesn’t appear on your credit report. If you want to apply for finance in the future, the lender will only know you have a student loan if they ask on the application. 
Other types of lending, such as a student credit card or student overdraft will appear on your credit report.
Does a student overdraft affect your credit score? 
A student overdraft will appear on your credit report, but it won’t affect your credit score if you’re careful with it. 
If you use your overdraft, it’s important to pay this back in a timely manner and avoid going over your arranged overdraft limit.
Going over your arranged overdraft limit on a regular basis can have a negative impact on your credit score. It can signal to lenders you’re struggling to manage your money. 
If you don’t use your student overdraft, it will still appear on your credit report, but will show a balance of 0.
How to build a good credit score as a student 
Join the electoral roll 
Pay your bills on time 
Don't keep applying for credit 
Consider taking out a student credit card 
Check your credit report 
1. Join the electoral roll 
Joining the electoral roll, if you’ve moved into student accommodation or a shared house, is an easy way to boost your credit score. You can do this online, and you may even be able to register two places – your address during term time and your home address.
2. Pay your bills on time 
One way to help build your credit rating is to pay your bills on time. Late payments could have a negative impact on your credit score.
Direct Debits and standing orders can be a useful way to make sure your payments are made on time. You can schedule them so the money is moved without you needing to do anything.
3. Don't keep applying for credit 
If you get rejected for finance it may seem tempting to apply again or try another provider, but you should resist doing this. Making multiple applications will be recorded on your credit file and can affect your credit score.
Explore: What to do if you’ve been declined for lending
If you’re wanting to see what rates and types of finance you’d be eligible for, use eligibility sites that do a soft credit check. A soft credit check won’t be seen by other lenders and can let you see what you’re more likely to be approved for.
4. Consider taking out a student credit card 
Credit cards can be a useful way to start building up your credit score. You may find some banks offer a student credit card, which often has a lower limit. If you’re sure you’ll be able to meet your repayments on what you spend, a student credit card could be worth considering. Remember, credit cards are not free money and should be used responsibly.
5. Check your credit report 
You can check your credit report at one of the 3 major UK credit reference agencies (TransUnion, Experian and Equifax) to see if all your details are correct. It’s important to query anything on your credit file that you don’t agree with – and correct any mistakes – as these can negatively impact your credit score. 
Checking your own credit report won’t affect your credit rating or credit score.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What's next? 
Making your money go further at uni 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Hints and tips for university 
Understand your student overdraft 
Things to consider before taking out a student credit card\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/how-to-build-your-credit-score-as-a-student/
########Top of main content 
Do you need mobile phone insurance? 
From taking calls to scrolling the internet – our mobiles are usually with us wherever we go. Mobile phone cover is optional, but it might be worth it. 
Here, we answer some of your common questions, from what’s covered to the price of a policy and things to consider – to help you decide if it’s right for you.
What does mobile insurance cover? 
Insurance policies can vary, so it’s important to check what is and isn’t covered. 
You may think you’re covered for something when you’re not, and only find out when you need to repair or replace your phone. 
Mobile phone insurance can include:
Loss, theft or accidental damage 
A standard mobile phone insurance policy typically covers you for loss, theft and accidental damage. This means, if you accidentally crack your screen, your insurer may pay for it to be repaired or replaced. If it’s only cosmetic damage, such as a scratch, you may not be covered. 
Keep in mind – if you suspect your phone has been stolen, you may need to report it to the police within 24 hours for the insurance to be valid. You’re unlikely to be covered, however, if there is no evidence of theft, or if you left your phone unattended. 
Mechanical faults 
If your device develops a fault outside of the manufacturer’s warranty, you may be covered under your mobile phone insurance. 
Water damage 
Accidentally dropped your phone in the sink? Your phone insurance may cover you for damage caused by liquid and cover the cost of repairs. But not all do – so it’s important to check. 
Overseas travel 
Standard mobile insurance is unlikely to cover you outside of the UK. However, some insurers may offer worldwide mobile phone insurance, which can cover you for a limited time if you travel abroad. 
Multiple phones 
Some insurers offer ‘multi-phone’ cover, where all phones in your household are covered under the same policy. However, this may not include children’s devices. 
Phone accessories 
From memory cards to phone covers, cases and chargers – the replacement of accessories that are damaged, lost or stolen at the same time as the device can sometimes be covered. 
Instant cover 
With instant cover, you’re covered as soon as you take out a policy – rather than having to wait a couple of weeks before making a claim, like with some policies. 
Unauthorised use 
If you ever lose your phone and someone makes unauthorised calls, texts or uses your mobile data, mobile phone insurance may cover the repayment of these costs. 
Is mobile phone insurance worth it? 
Some people are more likely to need mobile phone insurance than others. Here are some questions to ask yourself, to help you decide:
Have you taken out a new contract on an expensive phone? 
Mobile phone contracts can last up to 3 years. If something happens to your phone, you’ll still be required to pay off the contract for the remaining term – even if your mobile is damaged or stolen. This can mean you end up paying for a phone you can’t use. 
Do you have a history of broken phones? 
Prone to mishaps? You may want to consider insurance to cover you for accidental damage, so you’re covered in case it happens again. 
Is your mobile at risk of theft? 
Unfortunately, mobile phone theft does happen. Things that can increase your risk of theft include:
often taking calls on the go in crowded areas 
keeping your phone where it’s reachable, like your back pocket or in an open bag 
having your mobile on view – allowing thieves to ‘table surf’, where they grab your phone and go (sometimes without you realising) 
owning a brand new smartphone – thieves class some devices to be more desirable than others 
Would you need a replacement phone straight away? 
Having a mobile that’s out of action can cause problems if you rely heavily on your phone. If you need an instant replacement phone, mobile insurance may be worth considering. Just make sure your policy offers this service, as not all do. 
Do you already have mobile phone cover? 
Other types of insurance, such as home insurance can include mobile phones. However, it’s important to check if it contains the type of cover you need. For example, home insurance may not cover you for items outside the home or offer a replacement handset straight away. 
How much does mobile phone insurance cost? 
The cost of a mobile insurance policy varies, depending on:
the brand and model of your mobile phone 
the level of cover you’d like 
how much insurance excess you’re willing to pay 
whether the policy is paid in full or monthly 
According to Defaqto11 anchor to footnote 1, mobile insurance premiums typically range from £5 a month £14.99 a month. However, value for money isn’t just about price. Always check what’s covered to make sure you have the right level of cover for your needs. 
Where can you buy mobile phone insurance? 
Mobile insurance isn’t something we offer at HSBC.
Phone suppliers typically ask you if you’re interested in mobile phone insurance when you take out a contract. You may be able to take out a policy with them at a later date. 
You can also find policies through price comparison sites.
You may be able to get basic mobile phone insurance as part of a package bundle when you take out a current account or home insurance policy.
As with any insurance policy, always check the terms, conditions and exclusions before taking out cover.
1Source: Defaqto Defaqto This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Contents Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to consider when buying insurance 
What is insurance excess? 
How to make an insurance claim\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/do-you-need-mobile-phone-insurance/
########Top of main content 
Switch bank accounts to us 
Join the thousands of customers who've switched their current account to HSBC 
Switch your account quickly, easily and securely 
Thinking of switching banks? We’ve teamed up with the Current Account Switch Service to make moving your account to us a breeze.
We take care of everything 
All you need to do is tell us your old bank details and when you want to switch. 
All your payments moved automatically 
Including all your existing regular payments like Direct Debits and your salary. 
Stay updated at every step 
We’ll send you text alerts and tell you when everything’s sorted. 
Your switch completed in just 7 working days 
From start to finish, that’s all it takes (you'll need your new current account ready to switch into). 
How it works 
The Current Account Switch Service makes switching from your old current account to us quick and simple.
As part of the service, we’ll transfer all your payment mandates (like Direct Debits and your salary) over to your new HSBC account. And any payments sent to your old account will be automatically redirected to your new one. Once the switch is complete we’ll let you know everything’s done, and your old account will be closed.
Everything is backed by the Current Account Switch Guarantee (PDF, 355 KB)Current Account Switch Guarantee (PDF, 355 KB) This link will open in a new window, so in the unlikely event that anything goes wrong, you won't be out of pocket.
The Current Account Switch Service The Current Account Switch Service This link will open in a new window 
How to switch bank accounts 
When I switch current accounts, what happens and when? 
The switching process starts 7 working days before the date you've chosen to switch.
Day 1: We’ll contact your old bank to let them know you're moving. We'll ask them to close your old account once everything's been transferred safely.
Day 2: Your old bank will send us details of your regular payments, like your salary, Direct Debits and bill payments.
Days 3 to 4: We’ll set up these payments for you in your new account.
Day 7: Any credit balance will be transferred to your account with us, and your old bank account will be closed.
We'll keep you updated throughout, and we'll let you know when everything's switched successfully.
If my bank isn't signed up to the Current Account Switch Service, can I still switch? 
Yes. If your bank or building society hasn’t signed up to the Current Account Switch Service, you can switch to us manually.
Here’s how to do it:
First of all, let us know you’d like to switch. You can do this either when you apply for your account or afterwards. If you do it afterwards, you'll need to tell us by submitting a form in branch.
We’ll contact your old bank to tell them you’re switching. We’ll also ask them for a list of your Direct Debits and standing orders, so you can check that they’re correct.
Finally, we’ll ask your old bank to transfer your balance to your new HSBC account, and your old account will be closed. If any people or organisations make payments into your account (like your salary), give them your new account details, as we can't do it for you.
Switching this way generally takes longer than 7 working days, and it isn’t covered by the Current Account Switch Guarantee. Also, you may not be eligible for any switching incentives we're offering.
Can I use my old account while my current account switch is taking place? 
Yes. You’ll still be able to use your old account up until it's closed (which will be on your switching date, if you're using the Current Account Switch Service).
Can I get an overdraft? 
Yes, some of our accounts allow you to apply for an arranged overdraft limit. Eligibility criteria apply. Check if you're eligible through our quick tooltool This link will open in a new window.
If your new bank or building society agrees, bank accounts that include an overdraft can switch using the Current Account Switch Service. If you’d like to have an overdraft with your new bank account, speak to your new bank or building society before starting your switch. They'll be able to advise if you’re eligible for an overdraft, depending on their lending criteria and your credit status.
Do Third Party Provider (TPP) permissions switch across? 
If you've allowed Third Party Providers to access your financial data or make payments on your behalf, these permissions won’t be transferred automatically to your new account as part of the Current Account Switch Service.
Before you close your old account, check whether you have any Third Party Provider permissions set up.
Once your new account is open, you can give permission to the Third Party Provider by giving them with your new account details for account access. You'll need to contact the Third Party Provider directly to set this up.
If you're unsure whether your new bank will support Third Party Provider permissions on your account, you'll need to discuss this before your switch with your new provider. They'll be able to advise you of this. Please check your new provider’s terms and conditions for more information about Third Party Providers.
Useful documents 
Current Account Switch Service guide and agreement (PDF, 120 KB) Current Account Switch Service guide and agreement (PDF, 120 KB) Download 
Current Account Switch Service privacy agreement (PDF, 237 KB) Current Account Switch Service privacy agreement (PDF, 237 KB) Download 
Switch bank accounts online 
Don't have a current account with us? 
Please apply for a current account first. You'll be able to switch to us as part of your online application.
Explore our current accounts 
Prefer to switch in-branch? 
It's usually easiest to arrange your switch when you apply online, but if that isn't possible please visit us in branch.
Find your nearest branch 
Already got a current account with us? 
If you already have an account, you'll need to switch by visiting us in branch.
Find your nearest branch 
You might also be interested in
Choo\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/switching-to-hsbc/
########Top of main content 
Banking terms you need to know 
Here's a list of some of the key terms you’ll want to know when it comes to making the most of your current account. 
What is an account number? 
An account number is your bank account's unique number.
What is an available balance? 
Your available balance is the money you have available to spend, taking into account any pending payments and excluding any cheques that haven’t yet cleared.
It doesn't include any arranged overdraft limit.
Explore: Understanding your balance
What is a balance? 
Your current account balance is the amount you are either in credit, or in debit (overdrawn). This balance may include transactions that are still being processed.
It doesn't include any arranged overdraft limit.
What is a bank transfer? 
A bank transfer is when you send money between your own accounts – from a current account to a savings account, for example. You can also transfer money to other people or businesses.
What is a basic bank account? 
This type of account allows you to:
send money 
withdraw cash 
set up standing orders 
set up Direct Debits 
Basic bank accounts don't offer connected overdrafts.
What is a BIC? 
BIC stands for Business Identifier Code and is a number that identifies your bank. It's needed if you want to send or receive money from outside the UK. If you bank with HSBC, you'll find your BIC on your bank statement.
What is a cash machine? 
Cash machines are also called ATMs (automated teller machines). You can use them to:
withdraw cash from your account 
pay in cheques 
pay bills 
get statements 
Using a cash machine is usually free. Make sure you read the signs on the machine closely to check you won't be charged a fee.
What is credit? 
Credit is the amount of money you have available in your bank account.
What does debit mean? 
When your account is in debit, it's overdrawn. Your account is debited when money is withdrawn from it.
What is a debit card? 
You can use a debit card to make withdrawals from cash machines, as well as to pay for goods and services in person, online or over the phone. When you use your debit card, the amount of the transaction is debited from your current account.
What is a deposit? 
This is money paid into your account.
What is a Direct Debit? 
A Direct Debit is a payment from your bank account to another account on a date, or dates, agreed by yourself and the recipient. Unlike a standing order, the amount paid by a Direct Debit can be changed by the recipient, but they have to give you notice of this.
What is EAR? 
EAR stands for Equivalent Annual Rate. It's the rate you would pay on your overdraft if interest was charged annually on the amount you owe. It doesn't take into account any fees.
What are Faster Payments? 
Faster Payments is a real time payment system that can transfer money within seconds, instead of days. Occasionally, they can take up to 2 hours to go through, but this is uncommon. It’s one of the ways you can send money electronically in the UK.
What is the Financial Conduct Authority? 
Known as the FCA, this is the body that regulates the financial services industry in the UK, including banks and building societies. The FCA's role is to protect customers, businesses and the economy by making sure UK financial markets are honest, fair and effective.
What is an IBAN? 
IBAN stands for International Bank Account Number. It identifies accounts held at any bank in any country, or region. If you're an HSBC customer, you'll find your IBAN on your bank statement.
What is a joint account? 
This is an account held by more than one person. For example, you could open a joint current account or a joint savings account with someone you trust.
What is an arranged overdraft? 
Most current accounts allow you to apply for an arranged overdraft. This is an agreement in advance that you may borrow money when there is no money left in your current account. The arranged overdraft limit – which is the maximum amount you can borrow – is based on your credit rating and how much you can afford. There will usually be a cost for using an arranged overdraft in the form of interest and sometimes fees.
Explore: Overdrafts explained
What is a payee? 
A payee is the company, or person, you're paying.
What are pending transactions? 
Pending transactions are payments or deposits you've made – for example, by cheque or debit card – that haven't yet cleared or been debited to your account.
What are recurring transactions? 
Recurring transactions are payments you've agreed that a business can take from your debit or credit card when needed. They're also known as recurring payments or a continuous payment authority (CPA). Recurring payments are different from Direct Debits and standing orders because your instruction is with the business, not the bank. They can vary in amount and frequency.
What is a sort code? 
A sort code is a 6-digit code that identifies your bank branch.
What is a standing order? 
A standing order is a regular payment you make from your bank account. Unlike Direct Debits, the amount paid by a standing order is fixed and you're the only one who can change it.
What is a statement? 
A bank statement shows all the transactions that have taken place over a set period of time. It also shows any interest and fees that have been added to, or deducted from, your account. You can access your bank statements online or have paper statements sent to you by post.
What is a withdrawal? 
A withdrawal is when you take money out of your account.
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Benefits of a current account 
Choosing a bank account 
Opening a current account - what you need\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/banking-terms/
########Top of main content 
How to open a joint bank account 
A joint bank account can provide you and your partner, family member or friend, somewhere to deposit and store joint funds. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
You’ll also be able to withdraw money and make payments if needed.
Opening a joint account can give you access to online banking and secure banking apps. This can help you, and the other account holders, manage your joint money more easily. All account holders will have a bank card and be able to view any transactions made.
Here are 3 things you’ll need to check before you go ahead:
1. Check you're eligible 
With most banks, each of the joint applicants will need to be:
18 years or over 
currently living in the United Kingdom (UK) or in the European Union (EU) 
Non-UK nationals from outside the EU may need to provide a visa, or residential permit.
2. What do you need to open a joint bank account? 
If you decide to open a joint account, you’ll need proof of identification and proof of address. Depending on your bank, you may need more than one proof of address document.
There are a number of different documents you can use which are accepted, some common types include:
passport 
driver’s licence 
EU identity card 
utility bill 
council tax bill 
mortgage statement or rent agreement 
Some banks may also ask you for proof of income and your expenses. This would typically be:
payslip or P60 
bank statement 
letter from your employer 
tax return (if you're self-employed) 
3. Check your credit score 
The bank you’re applying for a joint account with may check your credit score, using information from up to 3 credit reference agencies:
TransUnion 
Equifax 
Experian 
You may want to check your credit scores and the information these credit agencies hold to make sure everything is accurate and up to date. There may be a small fee for doing this.
The credit record of the person (or people) you're applying with will affect your application.
Make sure a joint account is right for you 
Weigh up the pros and cons 
Before setting up a joint account, it’s worth taking some time to decide if you really need one. While it does have many advantages, there are some risks that merging your money can have. 
For example, if one of you makes the account overdrawn, you’ll both be responsible for repaying the money. The person you open an account with, will also have access to any money you put in. If they spend this money, you won’t necessarily be able to get it back.
Set some rules for how you'll use the account 
Making rules for how you’ll both manage your joint account will help things run smoothly. You may want to make rules, such as:
you'll both pay in the same (or a specific) amount every month 
the account is only to be used for paying bills and rent 
It’s useful to agree things upfront, so you’re both clear about what's expected.
Consider how you'll communicate 
Agree to keep on top of your cash flow by communicating regularly. By doing this, you’ll both have a clearer idea of how much you’re spending and how much money is in the account.
Discuss how you'll manage any existing debt 
If either of you has any existing debt, you’ll need to sit down and discuss how this will be managed in the future. Will you both work together to repay the debt? Or will the person who built up the debt be responsible for it? You'll be ‘co-scored’ when you apply for a joint account, so a poor credit score can affect your application.
Think about a joint saver 
Opening a joint savings account is ideal if you have any money left in your joint current account at the end of the month. You could put this money towards a holiday together, or something for your home. It’s always worth agreeing what the money will be used for upfront.
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore joint accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Merging your money 
How to save money as a couple 
Pros and cons of borrowing money together\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/how-to-open-a-joint-bank-account/
########Top of main content 
Opening a current account - what you need 
A current account enables you to deposit, hold, withdraw and transfer money. 
It can also give you access to online banking and secure banking apps, which help you manage your money. In some countries and regions, a current account is also known as a transaction account.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
Check if you're eligible 
Most UK banks require you to be 18 or over to open a current account. Some banks will accept applications from people aged 16 and over. If you’re 7 to 17 years old, you may be eligible for a children’s bank account.
To open a current account, many banks will require you to be a resident in the United Kingdom (UK). Non-UK nationals from outside the European Union (EU) or Switzerland may need to provide a visa or residence permit.
What documents do you need to open a bank account? 
To complete your application, you’ll need to provide a proof of identity and proof of address. Here’s a list of some commonly accepted documents.
Proof of identity:
passport 
driver’s licence 
EU identity card 
Proof of address:
utility bill 
telephone bill 
council tax bill 
mortgage statement 
tenancy agreement 
Keep in mind, each bank may have its own specific requirements and some banks will require more than one proof of address. If you're new to the UK, you may not be able to do this. In this case, a letter from a university or employer might be acceptable.
Explore: What documents do you need for an ID check?
Any other documents? 
You may need to provide proof of your income and be asked about your expenses. If you are, the following should be acceptable:
payslips 
bank statements 
P60 (statement issued to UK taxpayers at the end of the tax year) 
letter from a recognised employer 
tax returns (for self-employed) 
Check your credit report 
Many banks will check your credit history before they offer you a current account. To do this, they use information from the 3 credit reference agencies:
TransUnion 
Equifax 
Experian 
You can check the information these agencies hold on you to make sure it’s up to date.
How to open a bank account 
To open any of our accounts, a new customer will need to provide us with the documents and information as set out in HSBC Safeguard (PDF, 611KB) HSBC Safeguard (PDF, 611KB) This link will open in a new window. We may request additional information or documents in individual cases.
Opening an account 
You can open an account: 
Without visiting a branch	In some cases	
Where a visit to a branch is required, without an appointment	In some cases	
By sending us documents and information electronically	In some cases	
By post	In some cases	
Opening an account 
You can open an account: Without visiting a branch Without visiting a branch	
In some cases In some cases	
	
You can open an account: Where a visit to a branch is required, without an appointment Where a visit to a branch is required, without an appointment	
In some cases In some cases	
	
You can open an account: By sending us documents and information electronically By sending us documents and information electronically	
In some cases In some cases	
	
You can open an account: By post By post	
In some cases In some cases	
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Switching current accounts - what you need to do 
Choosing a bank account 
Banking terms you need to know\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/what-do-you-need-to-open-a-current-account/
########Top of main content 
Overdrafts explained 
An overdraft can be a useful way of borrowing money in the short term to cover unexpected costs. 
However, it’s important to understand everything associated with your overdraft before using it. Knowing the ins and outs of an overdraft can help you minimise, and even avoid, paying interest.
What is an overdraft? 
An overdraft lets you borrow money through your current account. You’ll go into an overdraft if you make a withdrawal, or purchase, that takes you below your available balance. In other words, if your account goes below £0, you’re into your overdraft. 
Typically, you’ll agree an overdraft limit with your bank or lender – this is known as an arranged overdraft. If you do, it’s important to know that you may be charged interest for using it.
If you’d like an arranged overdraft on your account, you’ll need to request one from your bank. However, not all bank accounts are eligible for an arranged overdraft. 
Explore: Banking terms you need to know
Advantages and disadvantages of overdrafts 
It's important to weigh up the pros and cons of having an overdraft.
Is an overdraft the best option for you? 
Advantages
Disadvantages
You can borrow what you need to
(up to your overdraft limit)
	You’ll likely be charged interest for borrowing
	
There may be flexibility when paying it back
	Going over your arranged overdraft limit may negatively affect your credit score
	
You may be able to extend or reduce your overdraft limit as needed
	The interest rate for using an overdraft may be higher than other ways of borrowing
	
Is an overdraft the best option for you? 
Advantages
You can borrow what you need to
(up to your overdraft limit)
You can borrow what you need to
(up to your overdraft limit)
	
Disadvantages
You’ll likely be charged interest for borrowing
You’ll likely be charged interest for borrowing
	
	
Advantages
There may be flexibility when paying it back
There may be flexibility when paying it back
	
Disadvantages
Going over your arranged overdraft limit may negatively affect your credit score
Going over your arranged overdraft limit may negatively affect your credit score
	
	
Advantages
You may be able to extend or reduce your overdraft limit as needed
You may be able to extend or reduce your overdraft limit as needed
	
Disadvantages
The interest rate for using an overdraft may be higher than other ways of borrowing
The interest rate for using an overdraft may be higher than other ways of borrowing
	
What is an arranged overdraft? 
Arranged overdrafts are where your bank agrees an overdraft limit with you. Arranged overdrafts typically come with an interest-free buffer. This is an amount you can owe without being charged interest.
What is an unarranged overdraft? 
An unarranged overdraft is where you haven’t agreed an overdraft with your bank but spend more than the amount in your current account. Spending more than your arranged overdraft limit will take you into an unarranged overdraft.
What is overdraft interest? 
You may need to pay interest for using an overdraft. Always check what the interest rate is before spending the money, to make sure you can comfortably afford the repayments. Banks should have an overdraft cost calculator on their website, which you can use to see how much an overdraft might cost you.
Student overdrafts typically don’t charge interest.
What is an interest-free overdraft? 
An interest-free overdraft is where you can spend up to a certain amount from your overdraft without being charged interest. This may be part of your arranged overdraft. You’ll only be charged interest on anything you spend over this interest-free amount. 
Not all overdrafts are interest-free or come with an interest-free amount. Check with your overdraft provider if you’re unsure.
How do you pay back an overdraft? 
If you’ve borrowed money through your overdraft, the faster you can repay it, the less interest you’ll be charged.
You can pay your overdraft back by transferring money into your current account. Even if you’re unable to pay it off in one go, transferring what you can afford will reduce the amount of interest you’re charged, as interest is calculated using your daily balance.
Cancelling or reducing your overdraft limit 
If you agree an arranged overdraft and then change your mind, you have 14 days to cancel from the date the overdraft was provided, or the day you received a copy of your overdraft agreement (whichever is later).
You can also ask to reduce your limit, or remove your arranged overdraft limit, at any time. You’ll have to repay any overdrawn amount, plus any interest for the period you’ve had it.
If you're an existing HSBC customer with an overdraft, you can use the mobile app or log on to online banking and manage your current arranged limit manage your current arranged limit This link will open in a new window.
Tips for paying off your overdraft 
Tips for paying off your overdraft 
If you need to reduce your spending to reduce your overdraft, here are a few things you may want to do:
build a budget to see where your money is going 
split your spending into ‘needs’ and ‘wants’, then focus on cutting down your ‘wants’ 
track your spending closely to make sure you’re sticking to your budget 
Explore: How to get out of your overdraft
Do overdrafts affect your credit score? 
Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) collect and hold secure information about your credit history, including: 
when an account was opened 
if you have an arranged overdraft limit and how much that is 
how you use your overdraft 
If you manage your account and overdraft well, this can help build your credit score. However, if you go into an unarranged overdraft – this can negatively affect your credit score and your ability to get credit in the future.
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score 
What happens if you don’t pay back your overdraft? 
Many banks, including HSBC, can withdraw your overdraft and request repayment at any point, so it’s cruci\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/overdrafts-explained/
########Top of main content 
Choosing a bank account 
Current accounts are the most common type of bank account in the UK and are designed for everyday use. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
See how they work and what different types are available, so you can find one to suit you.
What is a current account? 
A current account lets you manage your day-to-day spending and income. It's a bank account you can use to:
pay household bills 
set up Direct Debits or standing orders to make regular payments 
receive money such as your salary, pension, or benefits payments 
withdraw money from cash machines 
pay for goods and services with a debit card 
Current accounts sometimes include an arranged overdraft facility you can use to borrow a small amount in the short term if you go overdrawn. Keep in mind that overdrafts can carry fees and charge interest, so it's important to look at this before opening an account.
You can manage most current accounts online or through secure mobile apps.
If you’re an HSBC customer, you’ll automatically receive alerts, which warn you if your balance drops below a certain level. You can opt out of this at any time by going into a branch or contacting us over the phone. 
Explore: Banking terms you need to know
Different types of current account 
Choosing the right account depends on your circumstances and the features you want. These are the most common types of account.
Standard current account 
A standard current account comes with a debit card and may also include an arranged overdraft option and chequebook.
They shouldn't have any monthly account maintenance fees and interest rates tend to be low.
Basic current account 
These accounts usually offer the same basic services you get with a standard account, but without a chequebook or arranged overdraft facility. There may be restrictions on how much you can withdraw from cash machines in a single day.
Some banks offer these to help people with poor credit ratings, or in special circumstances when customers aren’t able to provide the accepted forms of ID and proof of address.
Explore: Opening a bank account without a fixed address
Packaged current account 
For a monthly fee, you may be able to benefit from a range of added extras that don't come with a standard current account. These sometimes include:
breakdown cover 
mobile insurance cover 
retail discounts 
interest-free arranged overdraft facility 
Fees typically range from £2 to £20 a month. Before opening one of these accounts it’s worth considering whether they will be cost-effective for you. For instance, if the account comes with free travel insurance and breakdown cover, but you don’t drive or go away much, it may not be worth your while.
Joint current account 
A joint current account is a bank account you open with someone else, such as a family member, partner or friend. It gives you a place to store joint funds and make payments if needed. All joint bank account holders will have a bank card for the account and be able to view any transactions made.
Account comparison tool 
Compare our current accounts to see which one may suit you. 
Student bank account 
Student bank accounts are designed to help those at university manage their finances.
Some accounts offer perks, such as free railcards, vouchers, and retail discounts. Don’t be too swayed by the freebies though – it’s more important the account is financially right for you.
Once you finish your education, your student account may automatically transfer to a graduate account. 
How do you switch bank accounts? 
The Current Account Switch Service has a switch guarantee of 7 working days. This means your new bank must arrange for all your existing incoming and outgoing payments to be transferred to your new account within 7 working days.
None of your regular payments will be affected because of a switch. And if required, any payments sent to your old account by mistake will be redirected to your new one.
Explore: How to switch current account
How many current accounts can you have? 
There’s no limit to the number of current accounts you can have. For example, you may have your main current account for bills, and a separate current account for day-to-day spending. If you do have more than 1 current account, make sure you’re able to keep on top of managing them all.
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Opening a current account - what you need 
How to open a joint bank account 
What are the benefits of a current account?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/choosing-a-bank-account/
########Top of main content 
What is an account number and sort code? 
All UK current accounts have an account number and sort code – to help banks find the correct account for money transfers. While the numbers may look random, they actually contain information that identifies you. 
What is an account number? 
An account number is a unique string of numbers that identify your bank account.
Your bank account number is a personal identifier and helps banks ensure transactions are directed to the correct customer account. If you have multiple bank accounts, each account will have a different account number.
How do I find my account number? 
You can find your bank account number on your bank statements or through your online and mobile banking accounts. In some cases, your account number is printed at the bottom of your cheques.
If you have a current account, you can also find your account number on your debit card. It may be printed on either the front or back of the card, and will typically be labelled as ‘Account Number’ or ‘Account No.’
How long is an account number? 
Your bank account number is 8-digits long.
What is a sort code? 
A sort code is a 6-digit number identifying the bank or bank branch holding your account. Sort codes help route transactions, ensuring funds are directed to the correct account within a bank.
Where is the sort code on a card? 
Your sort code is typically printed on the back of your debit card, though some cards may have it displayed on the front. It will usually be labelled as ‘Sort Code’, so you’ll be able to find it.
You won’t have a sort code if you have a credit card.
If you don’t have your card, you can also find your sort code on bank statements, cheques or through your online and mobile banking accounts. Alternatively, you can contact your bank.
Is it safe to give your sort code and account number? 
When used together, your sort code and account number allow people and businesses to transfer money into your account. Sharing your sort code and account number is generally safe since the information is required for you to receive payments.
Some countries, such as those within the European Union, use the International Bank Account Number (IBAN) and Business Identifier Code (BIC). Your IBAN is your account number written in a standard global format, while your BIC is a code used to identify your bank in global transactions. Much like your sort code and account number, these are generally safe to provide.
However, you should only provide this banking information to trusted individuals and organisations. Be aware of potential scams designed to obtain your bank details fraudulently.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Banking terms you need to know 
From standing order to IBAN, get to grips with a few banking terms worth knowing. 
Understanding your balance 
Use this guide to learn about some of the key terms you might come across when checking your balance. 
What is a Direct Debit? 
If you have multiple bills or subscriptions, approving automatic withdrawals can save you time and simplify payments.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/what-is-an-account-number-and-sort-code/
########Top of main content 
What is a bank transfer? 
A bank transfer is a way of transferring money from one bank account to another. You can typically transfer money online, in a branch, or through mobile banking. 
You can make a bank transfer to someone at the same bank as you, or at a different bank. They can also be used to send money internationally. It’s a safe and secure way to move money without having to handle cash.
How do bank transfers work? 
Making a bank transfer is a normal part of managing your money and is very simple to do. You instruct your bank to make the transfer. The money then leaves your account and is sent by your bank. It will arrive directly in the account of the person receiving it.
There are 3 main types of bank transfer:
BACS 
CHAPS 
Faster Payments 
What details are needed for a bank transfer? 
To transfer money to someone, you’ll need their bank transfer details, so your bank can send the money to the right place.
For BACS, CHAPS and Faster Payments within the UK, you’ll need the account number and sort code of the person you’re sending the money to. You’ll also need the person’s name as it appears on their account.
For international payments, you’ll need the IBAN or account number of the person you’re sending the money to. You’ll also need their address, as well as the bank code of the receiving bank, which will be a BIC or SWIFT code.
Explore: What is an IBAN, a BIC and a SWIFT code?
How long do bank transfers take? 
This depends on the type of bank account transfer you make, and where the money is going. Internal checks can also affect the time it takes for a bank transfer to be completed.
BACS payments can take up to 3 working days if started before 10.30am 
CHAPS payments can be used for same day payments 
Faster Payments usually arrive within 2 hours 
How much can I transfer online? 
You can only transfer money if you have the balance available in your current accounts. For UK payments, the daily limit for online and mobile bank transfers is £25,000 per account.
If you need to transfer a larger amount, for example making a deposit on a house, you’ll need to make a CHAPS payment. This can be done in branch and has no upper payment limit.
How much money can I transfer between banks? 
If you’re transferring money online to another one of your HSBC accounts, there is no limit to how much you can move.
If you’re paying bills or making payments to friends and family – there is a daily limit for online bank transfers of £25,000. This applies to transfers within the same bank, as well as to a different bank.
What is the difference between bank transfers and wire transfers? 
Wire transfers and bank transfers are both ways of sending money from one bank account to another. While the end result is the same, the way it works is slightly different for each.
Bank transfers use a system called an Automated Clearing House for the transaction. Wire transfers use the SWIFT system.
A wire transfer can be used to transfer money internationally. Bank transfers are often used for everyday transactions.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Banking terms you need to know 
From standing order to IBAN, get to grips with a few banking terms worth knowing. 
What to do if you transfer money to wrong account? 
One of the best things you can do is act quickly to get things sorted. Find out how. 
Is digital banking secure? 
Learn about some of the things we do to make sure your money is safe.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/what-is-a-bank-transfer/
########Top of main content 
What is a standing order? 
A standing order is a regular payment for a fixed amount that goes from one account to another. 
How does a standing order work? 
When you set up a standing order, you instruct your bank – allowing them to make ongoing payments on your behalf to another bank account, on a certain date.
The amount paid is always the same with a standing order meaning they are a useful way to manage predictable bills.
You can set up a standing order to:
transfer money between your accounts 
pay your rent or mortgage 
send money to someone you trust on a regular basis, such as a family member 
donate to charity 
pay for a subscription 
What’s the difference between a standing order and Direct Debit? 
If you need to make a regular payment from your current account, a standing order or Direct Debit could both be used. There is a difference between standing order and Direct Debit payments though.
With a standing order, you’ll need to know the exact amount to pay each time, which can’t vary once the payment is set up. Direct Debits are slightly more flexible, as the amount paid can change from month to month. This is more useful for bills where the amount owed can change, like phone bills.
Both types of payment have their own benefits. A bank standing order:
is set up by the account holder 
can be changed or stopped at any time 
helps manage predictable costs 
A Direct Debit:
is set up by the person or organisation receiving the money 
can be for different amounts of money each time a payment is made 
helps manage bills for amounts that vary 
How do I set up a standing order? 
Setting up a standing order is a simple process. It’s usually quickest to use online banking or mobile banking but you can also do it over the phone or pop into a branch.
You’ll need to know the account details of who you are paying. We’ll also ask you to confirm how much money to transfer, how often you want to make the payments, and when the payments should start and stop.
Explore: Instructions on how to set up a standing order
How long does a standing order take? 
Once a standing order is set up, the payments will leave your bank account on the day you choose each week or month. You should allow at least 2 working days the first time you set up a new standing order, to make sure the money is cleared in time.
Payment times can vary depending on which bank is receiving the money. If the payment is processed using Faster Payments, the money should reach the person or company who’s expecting the money on the same day it’s sent. It could take up to 3 working days otherwise, so it’s a good idea to leave yourself plenty of time to avoid any late payment charges.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to bank safely online 
Get safety tips on how to protect yourself against risks when shopping and banking online. 
What to do if you transfer money to wrong account? 
One of the best things you can do is act quickly to get things sorted. Find out how. 
Banking terms you need to know 
From standing order to IBAN, get to grips with a few banking terms worth knowing.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/what-is-a-standing-order/
########Top of main content 
What is a Direct Debit? 
If you have a current account, you can set up a Direct Debit to allow people or companies to take regular payments from your account. 
What is a Direct Debit? 
A Direct Debit agreement between you and your bank allows businesses to collect money from your current accounts on certain dates, excluding weekends and bank holidays.
You can set up a Direct Debit to a make one-off payment, but they’re commonly used to manage regular or ongoing payments, such as:
household bills 
rent 
memberships 
How do Direct Debits work? 
Once you’ve set up a Direct Debit, the company will automatically take the money from your account on a date you choose – as long as it’s a working day.
The company will also remind you of your Direct Debit before withdrawing the money. This gives you time to make sure you have enough money in your account to cover the payment.
Direct Debits can help you manage your bills and avoid missed or late payments – giving you one less thing to worry about.
How to set up a Direct Debit? 
To set up Direct Debit, you’ll need to provide the company with your information. They will then set up a Direct Debit on your behalf.
The company will need to know:
your name and address 
your bank’s name and address 
your account number and sort code 
the name displayed on your bank account 
You’ll need to fill in a Direct Debit instruction form that permits the company to take the money from your account. This could be online, or you may need to request a physical form from the company. You may also be able to provide your details over the phone.
The form will also include your Direct Debit reference number – a unique code to help the company identify your payments.
Once set up, the first payment will leave your account on the date you agreed and continue (each month, for example) until the Direct Debit is cancelled.
You’ll also receive a Direct Debit Guarantee. This is an assurance that if the company makes an error with your Direct Debit, your bank will refund you. The Direct Debit Guarantee also states that you can cancel your Direct Debit anytime.
Explore: Instructions on how to set up a Direct Debit
How long does it take to set up Direct Debit? 
After you provide your information, it typically takes between 3 and 10 days to set up a Direct Debit. This process can take up to 30 days, depending on the company.
Keep in mind – you may need to make a manual payment to your service provider while you wait for the Direct Debit to be set up, to avoid missed payments.
What time do Direct Debits go out? 
Direct Debits leave your account on weekdays, excluding bank holidays. If a payment falls on a weekend or bank holiday, the company will take it on the next available working day instead.
There is no set time for a Direct Debit to leave your account, but early morning debits (1am to 7am) are the most common.
How to cancel a Direct Debit? 
Usually, the quickest way to cancel a Direct Debit altogether is through online and mobile banking, but you can also cancel by phone or in person.
You’ll need to cancel at least 2 working days before your next payment is due, or the money may still be taken from your account.
You should also let the company know before the final payment date – to make sure they end the contract.
If you just want to amend a Direct Debit, you'll need to contact the company directly.
Explore: Instructions on how to amend or cancel a Direct Debit
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a standing order? 
Making regular fixed payments to another account? A standing order can help you streamline the process. 
How to bank safely online 
Get safety tips on how to protect yourself against risks when shopping and banking online. 
What is a BACS payment? 
Find out how to make an electronic money transfer between banks.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/what-is-a-direct-debit/
########Top of main content 
What is Faster Payments? 
Faster Payments is a quick and secure system for transferring sums of money between bank accounts. 
It allows for near-immediate electronic payments, making sending money to others or paying bills faster and more convenient.
The Faster Payment System (FPS) is always available, and you can make faster payments and transfers via:
online and mobile banking 
your local branch 
phone banking 
How long does Faster Payments take? 
Unlike a BACS payment, which typically takes up to 3 days, Faster Payments are near-immediate.
In most cases, funds arrive in the recipient’s bank account within seconds. Faster Payments may occasionally take up to 2 hours to go through but this is uncommon.
However, you should use these timeframes as a general estimate. Both BACS and Faster Payments are subject to internal checks, so you may get your funds later than expected.
How to use Faster Payments 
The most common ways of using Faster Payments are through single immediate payments and standing orders.
Single immediate payments are one-off payments made through your bank account using online banking, your mobile banking app, or visiting a bank branch. The transaction will be subject to internal checks, but the funds can potentially arrive in the recipient’s account within seconds.
A standing order is a recurring payment method where you regularly authorise your bank account to send a specific amount of money to another account. This is useful for making regular payments, such as rent or subscriptions.
Is there a limit on Faster Payments? 
The Faster Payments System has limits on how much you can transfer in a single payment.
The Faster Payments limit depends on the bank or building society you’re using, but the limit is typically up to £25,000 for personal transactions and up to £1 million for business transactions.
If you want to make a payment above the Faster Payments limit, consider alternative payment methods, such as CHAPS.
What is the difference between CHAPS and Faster Payments? 
The differences between CHAPS and Faster Payments are in speed and transaction limits.
CHAPS guarantees same-day arrival for high-value transactions, while Faster Payments provide near-instant transfers for smaller amounts of money. Both payment methods are subject to internal checks, so the funds may arrive later.
If you make a CHAPS payment through telephone banking, there will be a transaction limit. However, there won’t be a specific limit if you complete the transaction in a branch, unlike Faster Payments.
This means you can transfer amounts above the Faster Payments limit, but you’ll also pay a fee depending on the type of account the recipient has. You don’t have to pay a fee when transferring with Faster Payments.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to do if you transfer money to wrong account? 
One of the best things you can do is act quickly to get things sorted. Find out how. 
What is a BACS payment? 
Find out how to make an electronic money transfer between banks. 
What is a CHAPS payment? 
Find out how to transfer high value payments quickly and securely.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/what-is-faster-payments/
########Top of main content 
What to do if you transfer money to wrong account 
If you make a mistake when transferring money, acting quickly can help get things sorted. 
HSBC customers have 36 months to make a claim, but the sooner you do it the better chance you’ll have of getting the money back.
Here’s the step-by-step process for how reclaiming money works.
1. Speak to your bank 
The first thing to do is get in touch with your bank to tell them what’s happened. Make sure you have all your details handy (including details of the transaction).
Your bank should act within 2 working days. They should contact the bank that's received the money and ask for the money to be returned. If you know the person you sent the money to, and feel it's safe to do so, you may want to approach them directly to get your money back.
2. The recipient is contacted 
The recipient of the mistaken transfer will then be contacted by their bank about the transaction. They’ll have the opportunity to dispute your claim, but will need a reason to do so as the banks will conduct an investigation if they refuse to return the money.
3. You get an answer 
If there’s no dispute, the money should be returned to you within 20 working days. If there is a dispute, you’ll be notified of the outcome of your bank’s investigation within 20 working days.
If you’re unhappy with the final outcome, you can write to your bank and ask for the beneficiary’s details so you can try to retrieve the money yourself. You can also get in contact with the Financial Ombudsman.
4. Avoiding a mistake in the future 
Next time you’re transferring money, make sure you double check the details so you know it’s going where you intend. It can also help to double check the details of the person you’re transferring money to.
We've introduced a name checking service called Confirmation of Payee (CoP). It aims to protect against authorised push payment scams and reduce the number of payments which are made by mistake.
When you make a one-off payment, set up a regular new one or amend an existing payment, CoP lets you check you’re paying the right person or business. That way, you can see if the name matches who they say they are.
CoP also allows a person or business sending you a payment to check your name matches your account.
Back to top 
What next? 
See how to manage your money with tech and tools 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
facebook 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a digital wallet? 
Is digital banking secure? 
Cyber security: How to bank safely\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/online-transfer-mistake/
########Top of main content 
How to improve your credit score 
From registering to vote, to avoiding too many credit applications – there are ways you can boost your credit score and increase your chances of being accepted for credit. 
Here, we look at:
What are the benefits of improving your credit score?
How is your credit score calculated?
Ways you can increase your credit score
How long does it take to improve your credit score?
What are the benefits of improving your credit score? 
By improving your credit score, you’re more likely to be:
approved for credit, such as a credit card, loan, mortgage or phone contract 
offered a lower interest rate, which can make borrowing cheaper 
offered a higher credit limit, which can help you achieve goals faster, such as buying a new car or making home improvements 
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score
How is your credit score calculated? 
Your credit score is calculated using a points system, based on what’s in your credit report. It helps to understand the factors that can harm your score, so you can try to manage your money more effectively. 
Factors that can harm your credit score include:
a history of missed or late payments 
going over your credit limit 
holding joint accounts with someone with a poor credit report 
applying for credit too often, in a short space of time 
frequently withdrawing cash using your credit card 
bankruptcy, home repossession or Count Court Judgements (CCJs) 
not being on the electoral register 
inaccurate information 
Ways you can increase your credit score 
Register to vote 
Make sure you’re on the electoral register as lenders will use this to check your name, address and where you've lived before. 
Lenders need to confirm these details to validate who you are before offering credit. So, if you're not registered, it could cause a delay, or result in your application being turned down.
Prove your creditworthiness 
If you haven’t borrowed money before, it’s difficult for a lender to judge how likely you are to meet your repayments. This impacts your credit score. 
Taking a small amount of credit can help you borrow larger amounts in the future – as long as you manage it well. An arranged overdraft, or credit building credit card with a low limit could be an option for you. 
Pay on time and stay within your limits 
Lenders want to know they can rely on you to make regular repayments. A missed payment is likely to negatively impact your credit score. 
Your payment history in the last 12 months will be most important to lenders. If you've missed payments in the past, but have since become more reliable, your credit score might not be affected as much as you think.
And spending near, or over, your credit limit every month is going to give the impression you're struggling to manage your finances. So, try to keep within your limits.
Explore: What to do if you fall behind on debt repayments
Avoid multiple applications 
Too many applications could indicate to lenders you're struggling for money. If you just want to compare rates, ask your lender to do a 'quotation search' instead of a 'credit application search'. This means it won’t show up on your credit profile.
Explore: Hard vs soft credit checks: What's the difference?
Check for errors and report any mistakes 
Check your credit report to make sure there are no mistakes and any amounts showing as owed on your accounts are correct. 
Be aware of joint accounts 
When you apply for joint credit with someone, such as an overdraft, joint loan or mortgage – your credit history will be linked to theirs. 
If you’re looking to improve your score, you may want to ask your partner, for example, to try to do the same, especially if they have a poor credit report.
How long does it take to improve your credit score? 
Improving your credit score can take time. For example, it can take several weeks for updated information to appear on your credit report, and a few months before any new accounts start to help build your credit score. 
Information, such as late payments, can also stay on your credit report for 6 years. However, their impact will likely reduce as the record ages.
It may not happen overnight, but managing your money more effectively can make a big difference to your credit score and overall financial health. This will help you if, or when, you’re ready to apply for credit. 
Explore: Improve your financial fitness
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Tips for using your credit card 
Tips for paying off your credit card 
Ways to help you get a mortgage\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/how-to-improve-your-credit-score/
########Top of main content 
How to use a balance transfer credit card 
If used wisely, a balance transfer credit card can be a good way to manage your debt, giving you time to pay it off without being charged interest. 
If you have existing credit or store card debt and you’re being charged interest, a balance transfer credit card could save you money. They enable you to move debt onto another card that offers an interest-free (or low interest) period on the money transferred. 
This can help you pay off your debt quicker and cheaper.
How much could a 0% balance transfer credit card save you? 
Here’s an example of how long it would take, and how much it would cost you to pay off £2,000 of credit card debt, with an interest rate of 21.9% versus 0%. 
It assumes you’ll repay £100 a month.
Credit card repayment comparison 
Credit card 1
Credit card 2
Starting balance	£2,000	£2,000	
Monthly repayments	£100	£100	
Interest rate	21.9%	0%	
Time taken to repay balance	25 months	20 months	
Total amount paid	£2,452	£2,000	
Interest paid	£452	£0	
Credit card repayment comparison 
Starting balance Starting balance	
Credit card 1
£2,000 £2,000	
Credit card 2
£2,000 £2,000	
	
Monthly repayments Monthly repayments	
Credit card 1
£100 £100	
Credit card 2
£100 £100	
	
Interest rate Interest rate	
Credit card 1
21.9% 21.9%	
Credit card 2
0% 0%	
	
Time taken to repay balance Time taken to repay balance	
Credit card 1
25 months 25 months	
Credit card 2
20 months 20 months	
	
Total amount paid Total amount paid	
Credit card 1
£2,452 £2,452	
Credit card 2
£2,000 £2,000	
	
Interest paid Interest paid	
Credit card 1
£452 £452	
Credit card 2
£0 £0	
5 tips on using your balance transfer credit card 
Check the terms on your balance transfer credit card 
Always make the minimum repayment 
Don't use the card more than you need to 
Keep the end date for the 0% interest period in mind 
Switch your outstanding balance at the end of the 0% interest period 
1. Check the terms on your balance transfer credit card 
This may sound like a throwaway tip, but it’s vital to check the terms before applying for a balance transfer card. Make sure you’re aware of the following:
How long is the 0% interest period on balance transfers? 
Is there a fee to transfer a balance from another card? 
If there is a fee, is the cost benefit of switching to a card with an interest-free period greater than the fee? 
What is the interest rate on the card once the 0% interest period ends? 
2. Always make the minimum repayment 
Like other types of credit cards, you need to make a minimum monthly repayment on balance transfer cards. It’s important to keep up with this, otherwise you’ll have to pay a fee. Missed or late payments can also negatively impact your credit score. 
While you only need to make the minimum repayment, the more you’re able to repay each month the quicker you’ll be able to clear your debt. 
The easiest way to make sure you keep up with repayments is to set up a Direct Debit. 
You can also make multiple repayments throughout the month. This means that if you have a bit of extra cash available, you can use it to pay off the debt before you’re tempted to spend the money elsewhere. You may find chipping away at the debt throughout the month helps you pay it off faster.
Explore: How to avoid credit card charges
3. Don't use the card more than you need to 
One of the benefits of a balance transfer card is that it enables you to repay your debt in a cost-effective way.
Some balance transfer credit cards also offer a 0% interest period on purchases, which may be useful if you’re planning to use it to spend. 
The interest-free period for purchases is typically much shorter than the interest-free period for balance transfers. Once the interest-free period for purchases ends, you may have to pay interest on the balance if you don’t repay it in full each month. 
You may also be charged if you use the card to withdraw cash. This is known as a cash advance fee.
4. Keep the end date for the 0% interest period in mind 
When the 0% interest period on a balance transfer credit card ends, a new interest rate will kick in. Make a note of the date and aim to pay off your balance before then.
For example, if you have £2,000 of credit card debt and a 20-month interest-free period, you could set up a Direct Debit to repay £100 a month. Assuming you didn’t use your credit card during that period, you’d clear your debt without paying any interest.
If you have an outstanding balance when the interest-free period ends, you’ll be charged interest.
5. Switch your outstanding balance at the end of the 0% interest period 
If you still have money left to repay at the end of the interest-free period, review your options and consider moving your debt.
You may want to look at other balance transfer credit cards at that time, which could offer you a further 0% interest period.
Explore: What to do at the end of a balance transfer
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC balance transfer credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to avoid credit card charges 
How to improve your credit score 
What is an interest-free period?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/how-to-use-a-balance-transfer/
########Top of main content 
What is a 0% credit card for? 
If you’re looking for a credit card, you may see offers of 0% interest. 
Tempting as they sound, it’s important to be aware of the different types of cards and offers before deciding what’s right for you.
There are 3 kinds of 0% interest offers:
0% interest on purchases. These cards offer an interest-free period on purchases, covering anything you pay for using the card during a certain time. Not all cards are created equal. In particular, interest-free periods vary. 
0% interest on balance transfers. These cards offer an interest-free period on balance transfers – that’s any money owed on another credit card that you transfer across. Again, the interest-free period will vary and there’s often a fee for balance transfers. 
0% on both purchases and balance transfers. 
Don’t forget you’ll still have to make minimum monthly repayments on any card to avoid credit card fees. This amount will depend on how much you owe.
Explore: What is a balance transfer?
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Why would you use a 0% purchase credit card? 
Credit cards with 0% interest on purchases can be a good way to spread cost and build up your credit score. For example, you could use one to book flights, pay for a holiday or cover the cost of home improvements and then pay it back in monthly repayments. 
If you keep up with your minimum repayments and pay off the balance entirely before the end of the interest-free period, you won’t pay any interest. These interest-free periods can last for over 2 years.
You could also use a credit card with 0% interest on purchases as back-up to cover unexpected expenses, like car repairs or a large bill.
The ideal longer-term option is to build up your own emergency fund with savings to make sure you can cover such costs without taking on debt.
What to consider with 0% purchase credit cards 
The key thing to consider is the length of the interest-free period. Once this period ends, you’ll have to start paying interest on the amount you owe. 
The interest rates that kick in once the introductory offers end can be high. So, make sure you’re aware of the Annual Percentage Rate (APR). If you can, aim to pay off your balance completely during the interest-free period.
With this in mind, only spend what you need to on your credit card. The more debt you build up, the more you have to repay and the more interest you’ll incur if you can’t pay it off before the 0% interest period ends.
If you decide a 0% interest card is right for you, it’s worth checking what other benefits or rewards are on offer. For example, some cards will offer cashback and rewards as you spend.
Are 0% purchase credit cards better than personal loans? 
The short – and possibly annoying – answer is that it depends on your circumstances and what you’re using them for.
A 0% credit card could give you more flexibility in terms of how much and when you borrow and how quickly you repay it. If you’re able to repay the debt before the interest-free period ends, you won’t pay any interest.
However, a personal loan may enable you to borrow more money for a longer period, with a fixed interest rate and repayments for the whole time. This may be suitable if you prefer to set the total amount you can borrow and have a pre-defined repayment plan.
Explore: Ways to borrow
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How do credit cards work? 
How many credit cards should you have? 
How to avoid credit card charges\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/what-is-a-0-percent-credit-card-for/
########Top of main content 
Types of credit cards 
Credit cards can be a convenient way to pay for a range of things, but the type that’s right for you will depend on what you want to use it for. 
Understanding the pros and cons of each type of credit card can help you find the best one for you. Here’s a quick rundown on some of the different categories.
Low rate credit card 
A low rate credit card typically offers a lower interest rate on purchases. This type of credit card can be useful if you think you may have to carry a balance – that’s the money you owe – from one month to another. While these cards have a lower interest rate, you may have to pay an annual fee.
Rewards credit card 
Some credit cards offer cashback or other rewards for everyday spending, like air miles or shopping vouchers, when you use them. They may have a higher interest rate or an annual fee, so try to work out whether the rewards will outweigh the costs. 
0% purchase credit card 
Some cards offer periods of 0% interest on purchases. These can be useful if you plan to buy a big ticket item and pay for it upfront, giving you a fixed period of time to repay without being charged interest.
Keep in mind that once the 0% interest period ends the purchase interest rate will change. Make sure to look at this so you know what you’re in for down the track. 
Balance transfer credit card 
Some cards offer 0% interest for a fixed time period for balance transfers from other cards. These allow you to transfer the debt for a small percentage fee of the amount you're transferring. This can be helpful if it means you’ll pay less interest and fees overall. 
Like the 0% purchase card, this 0% interest period will end – so, ideally, you should try to clear your debt before it does. It’s also worth looking at what the rate will change to so you know what you’re in for over the longer term.
Explore: What is a balance transfer?
Credit builder card 
If you have little, or no, credit history because you’ve not borrowed much in the past, then these cards can help you build your credit score. Interest rates may be higher than other types of cards, but you can avoid interest as long as you pay off your balance in full each month.
Travel credit card 
If you travel a lot, a travel credit card can make it cheaper for you to spend money overseas. They usually don’t charge a fee for making purchases or withdrawing cash overseas. 
Travel credit cards tend to have good exchange rates and some may offer reward points for spending. Interest rates may be higher than other types of cards, but you can avoid interest if you pay off your balance in full each month.
Money transfer credit card 
A money transfer card lets you move money from your credit card into your current account, for a fee. You may consider a money transfer credit card if you wanted to pay off an overdraft, for example. This is different from a balance transfer credit card, where you move debt from one credit card to another. 
HSBC doesn’t currently offer money transfer credit cards.
Keep in mind 
Taking out a credit card is a big decision and it’s important to make sure you’re aware of all the benefits and trade-offs of any cards you’re interested in. 
Credit is subject to status. Eligibility criteria apply. 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a 0% credit card for? 
Tips for using your credit card 
How to apply for a credit card\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/credit-card-comparison/
########Top of main content 
How does a credit card work? 
A credit card allows you to buy things now, and pay for them later – either in full to avoid paying interest, or in monthly instalments. 
You’re able to spend up to a certain amount on the credit card – known as your credit limit. 
You’ll get a monthly statement from your credit card provider, which lists your transactions. And, if you’ve spent money on the card, you’ll have a minimum amount you need to pay towards your balance each month to avoid credit card charges.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What is credit card interest? 
If you don’t pay off your credit card balance in full after receiving your statement each month, you’ll be charged interest. The interest will be calculated as a percentage of the amount you owe. 
Some cards, such as balance transfer credit cards, offer an interest-free period when you first get the card. However, once that period is over you'll start to be charged interest if you don’t pay the full balance every month.
There are some transactions, such as cash withdrawals, which you may still be charged interest on, even if you repay your balance in full each month. Always check your credit card terms and conditions to see what types of transactions you’ll be charged interest on. 
Explore: What is a 0% interest credit card for?
Advantages of using a credit card 
There are several advantages to having a credit card, as long as you use it responsibly. 
You can:
Spread the cost of a large or expensive purchase 
Want to book a holiday or buy a new sofa? You can make a purchase and then repay the balance over the course of several months. This is where a card with an interest-free purchase period can come in particularly handy – if you can pay off the balance during that period, you won’t pay any interest at all.
Get purchase protection 
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, you may be protected if you buy anything that costs between £100 and £30,000. This means, if something goes wrong (such as faulty goods, or if the company you’ve purchased from closes down), you could get a refund. 
Build your credit rating 
Having no credit history means that banks are unable to assess how well you can manage debt.
A credit card can help you build up your credit score and create a good record of paying off debt – as long as you make at least the minimum payment each month and stay within your credit limit. 
When it comes to applying for larger loans like a mortgage, this can help prove you're responsible. Your credit score may be harmed if you don’t keep to the terms of your credit card agreement.
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score
Prepare for emergencies 
Although it’s a good idea to build up an emergency fund, a credit card can help cover repairs, or unexpected expenses should something happen.
Things to consider before you apply for a credit card 
Before you apply for a credit card, there are some key things to think about.
How you'll handle temptation 
With a credit card you may be able to spend more than you’re comfortable with. Before taking one out, consider how you’ll handle any temptation and whether it’s the right option for you. If you decide it is, then you could set yourself some rules for spending. These can be simple things such as to only spend within a certain amount each month, or to only use it for emergencies or big purchases.
Your spending habits 
If you’re planning to pay off your balance in full every month, the interest rate may be less of a concern to you.
But if you’re going to carry a balance, it may be worth looking for a card with the lowest interest rate available. Keep in mind that you don’t want to be setting yourself up with long term debt – so carrying a debt indefinitely is not what a credit card should be used for.
Explore: Tips for using your credit card
Credit card fees 
Some credit cards charge an annual fee, and charge for certain types of transactions, such as cash withdrawals, making a balance transfer or using your credit card overseas. 
You could also be charged a fee if you go over your credit limit, or make a late payment. This could harm your chances of getting credit in the future.
Explore: How to avoid credit card charges
Annual Percentage Rate (APR) 
APR is the way lenders describe the cost of borrowing money over a year – taking into account the purchase interest rate and fees associated with having the credit card, such as an annual fee. 
When comparing credit cards, the representative APR can give you an idea of how much a credit card could potentially cost you. 
Explore: How does APR work?
Representative examples 
Representative examples are what lenders use to show the potential costs when advertising a particular credit card. Lenders need to reasonably expect to offer the representative APR (or lower) to at least 51% of successful applicants. 
Representative examples will show the representative APR and whether it’s fixed or variable. They’ll also show the purchase rate and whether this is fixed or variable. 
It’s important to be aware that you may not receive the representative APR when applying for a credit card. The actual APR you’re offered will depend on the lender’s assessment of your personal circumstances. 
Explore: What does a representative example look like?
Credit card eligibility 
You can apply for an HSBC credit card if you:
are over 18 
are a resident of the UK 
have a regular income, typically of at least £6,800 a year before tax 
Some credit cards may have additional eligibility requirements, for example HSBC’s Premier Credit\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/how-do-credit-cards-work/
########Top of main content 
Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Enjoy up to 24 months interest-free for balance transfers (3.49% fee, min £5). 
Give yourself some breathing room with our longest balance transfer offer (fees apply). Transfer your other credit card balances so that you make just one monthly payment for everything. Representative 24.9% APR (variable).
Balance transfers need to be done in the first 60 days to get up to 24 months interest-free. A 3.49% fee applies per balance transferred, minimum £5.
Credit is subject to status, affordability and terms and conditions. The rate and promotional period we offer will depend on our assessment of your circumstances. Please read the important documents before applying. Why is it only 'up to' 24 months?
	
Representative example
Purchase rate24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Start application 
Key benefits of a Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Interest-free balance transfers 
0% interest for up to 24 months11 view footnote 1 on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening22 view footnote 2. A 3.49% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5.
Interest-free purchases 
0% interest on purchases for 3 months11 view footnote 1 from account opening22 view footnote 2.
No annual fee 
Good news! There's no annual fee for the Balance Transfer Credit Card.
Your Balance Transfer Credit Card also comes with 
Offers and discounts 
Save on shopping, eating out, travel, family days out and more. We regularly update our range of offersour range of offers This link will open in a new window, so they'll vary as new ones come in. 
Use your credit card abroad 
You can use your HSBC credit card in all countries and regions supported by the Visa and Mastercard networks. Fees apply, and non-HSBC cash machines may also charge a fee. 
No-fuss card management 
Use online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app to check your balance, make payments, block or unblock your card, and stay in control. 
Enjoy 24/7 worldwide assistance 
Help is at hand if your card is lost or stolen. Call our dedicated support team about getting an emergency cash advance. 
Purchase protection 
Section 75 protects credit card purchases of £100 to £30,000 if the supplier breaches a contract, or misrepresents goods. 
Go digital 
All HSBC credit cards are contactless and can be used with a digital wallet. For immediate access to spending, you can add your card to Apple Pay or Google Pay directly from the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app before your new card arrives. 
Things to know 
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a Balance Transfer Credit Card if you:
are over 18
are a UK resident
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
do not hold an HSBC Basic Bank Account
Important documents 
Summary Box (PDF, 164KB) Summary Box (PDF, 164KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Download 
Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Download 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Download 
Ready to apply for a Balance Transfer Credit Card? 
Existing customers 
On your mobile device? If you've downloaded our app, you can apply now by selecting 'Apply in app'.
Apply in app Apply in app for a credit card 
If you're on a desktop, scan the QR code with your mobile device.
More ways to apply 
Apply in browser 
If you're registered for online banking, you can apply now. You'll be able to see your pre-filled application form, submit it, and get an instant decision.
Log on and apply Log on and apply This link will open in a new window 
Register for online banking 
Apply in branch 
It’s usually easiest to apply through the app or online banking, but if you need support you can visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application.
Please bring your mobile phone with you (or a similar device, like a tablet) if you have one.
Find your nearest branch 
New to HSBC? 
You'll just need to provide a few details as part of your application.
New to HSBC? Apply now New to HSBC? Apply now This link will open in a new window 
New to the UK? 
We may be able to access your international credit history in selected countries to help you apply for an HSBC UK credit card.
Find out about credit cards for international customers 
Frequently asked questions 
What is a balance transfer credit card? 
A balance transfer credit card is a way of moving several credit card balances onto a single card. This can make managing balances simpler, with one balance to keep track of and one payment to make each month.
How do credit card balance transfers work? 
Balance transfers work by moving your debt from one or more credit cards to another credit card. Any money you owe – your balance – is moved over to the new card.
What happens to the old credit card after balance transfer? 
The balance of the old credit card will be paid off, but it won't close automatically. You may want to think about whether you'd like to keep that card in future or not.
Why are interest-free periods sometimes limited? 
The rate and promotional period we offer will depend on our assessment of your circumstances.
We may offer you:
0% for 20 months on balance transfers with 27.9% APR and 0% for 3 months on purchases
0% for 14 months on balance transfers with 29.9% APR and 0% for 3 months on purchases
You might also be interested in 
Not the right card for you?
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one that matches your needs.
Debt Consolidation Loan
Help make your debts easier to manage with a single monthly repayment plan.
Ways to borrow
If you're unsure whether an overdraft, credit card or loan would suit you, this tool can help you understand your options.
How to avoid credit card charges
Get to know the different types of credit card charges and how you can reduce the amount you pay.
Standards of Lending Practice 
HSBC adheres\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/balance-transfer/
########Top of main content 
Rewards Credit Card 
Earn and pay with reward points on your everyday spending 
Get reward points wherever Mastercard is accepted, whether it's online, in store, abroad*, or even on recurring payments. You can then use your points to offset purchases within the Mastercard Pay with Rewards app. *Fees apply, non-HSBC cash machines may also charge a fee. Representative 23.9% APR (variable).
Get 2,500 points (worth £25) as a welcome bonus when you make your first transaction.
Credit is subject to status, affordability and terms and conditions. Please read the important documents before applying.
	
Representative example
Purchase rate23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Start application 
Key benefits of a Rewards Credit Card 
Pay with reward points 
Use reward points for everyday purchases wherever your card is accepted, in-store or online.
0% interest on purchases 
0% interest on purchases for 6 months11 view footnote 1 from account opening.
0% interest on balance transfers 
0% interest for 6 months11 view footnote 1 on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 2.99% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5.
Your Rewards Credit Card also comes with 
Introductory points 
Get 2,500 welcome points worth £25 when you make your first transaction on your card.2 
Bonus points 
Get another 2,500 bonus points when you spend22 view footnote 2 £10,000+ on your card in the first year. You can earn these anniversary points33 view footnote 3 in each of the first 5 years you have your card. They're paid on the anniversary of when you opened your account. 
Earn rewards as you spend 
Get reward points as you use your card, then spend them on shopping, travel and much more. 
Use your credit card abroad 
You can use your HSBC credit card in all countries and regions supported by the Visa and Mastercard networks. Fees apply, and non-HSBC cash machines may also charge a fee. 
Enjoy 24/7 worldwide assistance 
Help is at hand if your card is lost or stolen. Call our dedicated support team about getting an emergency cash advance. 
Mastercard Priceless 
Access unforgettable experiences and everyday value in the cities where you live and travel with Mastercard Priceless.Mastercard Priceless. This link will open in a new window 
No-fuss card management 
Use online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app to check your balance, make payments, freeze your card, and stay in control. 
Go digital 
All HSBC credit cards are contactless and can be used with a digital wallet. For immediate access to spending, you can add your card to Apple Pay or Google Pay directly from the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app before your new card arrives. 
Things to know 
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a Rewards Credit Card if you:
are over 18
are a UK resident
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
hold an HSBC Advance Account or hold an HSBC Bank Account or HSBC Premier Account, and have paid a total of £1750 a month into your account over the last 6 months. This total can't include money transferred from other sole or joint personal accounts held with HSBC UK
Important documents 
Summary box (PDF, 148KB) Summary box (PDF, 148KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Download 
Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Download 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Download 
Rewards Programme Rules (PDF, 61KB) Rewards Programme Rules (PDF, 61KB) Download 
Ready to apply for a Rewards Credit Card? 
Existing customers 
On your mobile device? If you've downloaded our app, you can apply now by selecting 'Apply in app'.
Apply in app Apply in app for a credit card 
If you're on a desktop, scan the QR code with your mobile device.
More ways to apply 
Apply in browser 
If you have an HSBC Premier, Advance or Bank Account and you're registered for online banking, you can start your application right away.
Log on and apply Log on and apply This link will open in a new window 
Register for online banking 
Apply in branch 
It’s usually easiest to apply through the app or online banking, but if you need support you can visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application.
Please bring your mobile phone with you (or a similar device, like a tablet) if you have one.
Find your nearest branch 
New to the UK? 
We may be able to access your international credit history in selected countries to help you apply for an HSBC UK credit card.
Find out about credit cards for international customers 
Frequently asked questions 
What is a rewards credit card? 
A rewards credit card earns you points as you use it. Then you can then spend your points on shopping, travel and more.
How do credit card rewards work? 
An HSBC Rewards Credit Card helps you earn reward points on eligible purchases you make using the card. Collect reward points, then use the Mastercard Pay with Rewards app to put your points towards purchases.
Do reward cards build credit? 
Credit cards can be a useful way to start building up your credit score. If you’re sure you’ll be able to meet your repayments on what you spend, a rewards credit card could be worth considering.
You might also be interested in 
Not the right card for you?
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one that matches your needs.
Reward points
Find out how your rewards credit card can pay you back.
Ways to borrow
If you're unsure whether an overdraft, credit card or loan would suit you, this tool can help you understand your options.
How to avoid credit card charges
Get to know the different types of credit card charges and how you can reduce the amount you pay.
Standards of Lending Practice 
HSBC adheres to the standards of lending practice guidelines.
Additional information 
1. At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers and purcha\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/rewards/
########Top of main content 
Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Discover the all-rounder that has up to 18 months of interest-free purchases and up to 16 months of interest-free balance transfers (3.49% fee, minimum £5). 
Spread the cost of your spending with our longest interest-free period on purchases. Representative 24.9% APR (variable).
Balance transfers need to be done in the first 60 days to get up to 16 months at 0% interest. A 3.49% fee applies per balance transferred, minimum £5.
Credit is subject to status, affordability and terms and conditions. The rate and promotional period we offer will depend on our assessment of your circumstances. Please read the important documents before applying. Why is it only 'up to' 18 months?
	
Representative example
Purchase rate24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Start application 
Key benefits of a Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Interest-free purchases 
0% interest on purchases for up to 18 months11 view footnote 1 from account opening.
Interest-free balance transfers 
0% interest for up to 16 months11 view footnote 1 on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 3.49% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5.
No annual fee 
Good news! There's no annual fee for the Purchase Plus Credit Card.
Your Purchase Plus Credit Card also comes with 
Purchase protection 
Section 75 protects credit card purchases of £100 to £30,000 if the supplier breaches a contract, or misrepresents goods. 
No-fuss card management 
Use online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app to check your balance, make payments, freeze your card, and stay in control. 
Use your credit card abroad 
You can use your HSBC credit card in all countries and regions supported by the Visa and Mastercard networks. Fees apply, and non-HSBC cash machines may also charge a fee. 
Enjoy 24/7 worldwide assistance 
Help is at hand if your card is lost or stolen. Call our dedicated support team about getting an emergency cash advance. 
Offers and discounts 
Save on shopping, eating out, travel, family days out and more. We regularly update our range of offersour range of offers This link will open in a new window, so they'll vary as new ones come in. 
Go digital 
All HSBC credit cards are contactless and can be used with a digital wallet. For immediate access to spending, you can add your card to Apple Pay or Google Pay directly from the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app before your new card arrives. 
Things to know 
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a Purchase Plus Credit Card if you:
are over 18
are a UK resident
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
do not hold an HSBC Basic Bank Account
Important documents 
Summary Box (PDF, 164KB) Summary Box (PDF, 164KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Download 
Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Download 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Download 
Ready to apply for a Purchase Plus Credit Card? 
Existing customers 
On your mobile device? If you've downloaded our app, you can apply now by selecting 'Apply in app'.
Apply in app Apply in app for a credit card 
If you're on a desktop, scan the QR code with your mobile device.
More ways to apply 
Apply in browser 
If you're registered for online banking, you can apply now. You'll be able to see your pre-filled application form, submit it, and get an instant decision.
Log on and apply Log on and apply This link will open in a new window 
Register for online banking 
Apply in branch 
It’s usually easiest to apply through the app or online banking, but if you need support you can visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application.
Please bring your mobile phone with you (or a similar device, like a tablet) if you have one.
Find your nearest branch 
New to HSBC? 
You'll just need to provide a few details as part of your application.
New to HSBC? Apply now New to HSBC? Apply now This link will open in a new window 
New to the UK? 
We may be able to access your international credit history in selected countries to help you apply for an HSBC UK credit card.
Find out about credit cards for international customers 
Frequently asked questions 
What's the purchase rate on a credit card? 
A purchase rate is the interest rate that's charged when you use a credit card to buy something. Different cards will offer different lengths of interest-free periods for purchases.
What's the interest on purchase credit cards? 
The interest rate on a Purchase Plus Credit Card will be subject to status and a credit check. Credit cards come with a variable interest rate, meaning this rate could go up or down.
How does a 0% purchase credit card work? 
Our Purchase Plus Credit Cards come with a pre-determined number of months at 0% interest on purchases. This allows flexibility to pay for purchases, interest-free, over a certain number of months.
Why are interest-free periods sometimes limited? 
The rate and promotional period we offer will depend on our assessment of your circumstances.
We may offer you:
0% for 15 months on balance transfers and purchases with 27.9% APR
0% for 15 months on balance transfers and purchases with 29.9% APR
You might also be interested in 
Not the right card for you?
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one that matches your needs.
What is a 0% credit card for?
Understand the different kinds of 0% credit card offers and work out which cards could suit you.
How to avoid credit card charges
Get to know the different types of credit card charges and how you can reduce the amount you pay.
Ways to borrow
If you're unsure whether an overdraft, credit card or loan would suit you, this tool can help you understand your options.
Standards of Lending Practice 
HSBC adheres to the standards of lending practice guidelines.
Additional information 
1. At the \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/purchase-card/
########Top of main content 
Second credit cards 		
A second credit card could be useful if your borrowing needs have changed. 
Who can have a second card? 
If you already hold an HSBC UK credit card, you can apply for a second credit card with us. You must not have opened a new HSBC credit card within the past 6 months and you must not be applying for a credit card that you already hold. You won't be able to transfer your balance between HSBC cards, including First Direct or M&S Bank. 
Flexibility to help meet your needs 
Make new purchases 
Your new card will have its own credit limit, so you'll be able to use it independently of your first one. 
Keep track of separate expenses 
Prefer to keep your household spending separate from your personal spending, for example? A second card could help you keep everything tidy. 
Take advantage of reward points 
Interested in getting more from your card? If your existing card isn't a rewards card, find out what they can offer. 
Transfer balances from other cards 
If your existing HSBC card isn't designed to receive a balance from a card you have with another provider, check our balance transfer card to see if it suits your needs. 
Which card are you interested in? 
Remember, your second HSBC card needs to be a different one from your first card. 
Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Discover the all-rounder that has up to 18 months of interest-free purchases and up to 16 months of interest-free balance transfers (3.49% fee, minimum £5).
Available for existing Rewards, Premier and Premier World Elite credit card holders only.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Find out more and apply Find out more and apply for Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Enjoy up to 24 months interest-free for balance transfers (3.49% fee, min £5).
Available for existing Rewards, Premier and Premier World Elite credit card holders only.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 24.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Find out more and apply Find out more and apply for Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Rewards Credit Card 
Earn reward points on eligible purchases you make.
Available for existing Balance Transfer, Purchase Plus, Classic, Premier and Premier World Elite credit card holders only.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Find out more and apply Find out more and apply for Rewards Credit Card 
Premier Credit Card 
Get travel benefits, rewards and HSBC Premier Privileges - just for HSBC Premier customers.
Available for existing Balance Transfer, Purchase Plus, Classic and Rewards credit card holders who meet the eligibility criteria for Premier. Also available for Premier World Elite credit card holders.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Find out more and apply Find out more and apply for Premier Credit Card 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Designed for the dedicated traveller - exclusive to existing HSBC Premier (including retained Jade benefits) and Private Banking Account customers.
Available for existing Balance Transfer, Purchase Plus, Classic and Rewards credit card holders who meet the eligibility criteria for Premier. Also available for Premier credit card holders.
Eligibility criteria apply. Credit is subject to status.
Representative example
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 59.3% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Annual fee: £195
Find out more and apply Find out more and apply for Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Frequently asked questions 
Will I be able to make one monthly payment for both cards, or do I have to keep them separate? 
You'll need to manage each card separately and make a separate monthly payment for each. Setting up a Direct Debit for each card makes it easier to manage credit card payments without missing a payment and getting charged.
How many HSBC cards can I have? 
You may hold a maximum of 2 cards with HSBC.
Can I transfer a balance between my HSBC credit cards? 
No. You can't transfer balances between two HSBC credit cards, including First Direct or M&S Bank. You can only transfer balances from cards you have with an external provider.
Need more help? 
Our tools can help you find out more about the cards we offer, and see whether your application could be successful. 
Credit card comparison tool 
Take a look at our range of credit cards, consider their benefits and find the one that will suit you best. 
Eligibility checking tool 
See which cards you’re likely to be accepted for, and your estimated credit limit, without it affecting your credit score. 
You might also be interested in 
Get the most from your credit card 
Manage all your card needs online or via the app. 
Credit card interest rates and fees 
Get clear and up-to-date information on how much you'll have to pay in interest and fees. 
How many credit cards should you have? 
There's no magic number, but see what the considerations are before taking out another credit card. 
Additional information 
Disclaimer 
Balances can’t be transferred from all cards. For example, cards issued by members of the HSBC Group, including HSBC UK, first direct and M&S Bank are excluded.
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers and purchases will revert to the standard variable rate.
If you have an HSBC UK credit card, you’re eligible to apply for another if you haven’t applied for an HSBC credit card within the past 6 months, and the card isn’t the on\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/second-cards/
########Top of main content 
Classic Credit Card 
Start building your credit rating 
If you're new to credit cards and need one that will help you start to build your credit rating, this could be the one for you. Representative 29.9% APR (variable).
Credit is subject to status, affordability and terms and conditions.
Please read the important documents before applying.
Representative example
Purchase rate29.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative29.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of£1,000
Start application 
Key benefits of a Classic Credit Card 
No annual fee 
Good news! There's no annual fee for the Classic Credit Card.
Up to £1,000 credit 
The Classic Credit Card could provide up to £1,000 credit, depending on your situation. If you need a higher credit limit, explore our other cards.
Build or boost your credit rating 
Could help build or improve your credit rating, if managed well. Your credit score could be harmed if you don't make payments on time or stay within your credit limit.
Your Classic Credit Card also comes with 
No-fuss card management 
Use online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app to check your balance, make payments, freeze your card, and stay in control. 
Purchase protection 
Section 75 protects credit card purchases of £100 to £30,000 if the supplier breaches a contract, or misrepresents goods. 
Offers and discounts 
Save on shopping, eating out, travel, family days out and more. We regularly update our range of offersour range of offers This link will open in a new window, so they'll vary as new ones come in. 
Go digital 
All HSBC credit cards are contactless and can be used with a digital wallet. For immediate access to spending, you can add your card to Apple Pay or Google Pay directly from the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app before your new card arrives. 
Things to know 
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a Classic Credit Card if you:
are over 18
are a UK resident
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
hold an active HSBC current account (excluding Basic Bank Account)
Important documents 
Summary Box (PDF, 164KB) Summary Box (PDF, 164KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Download 
Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Download 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Download 
Ready to apply for a Classic Credit Card? 
Existing customers 
On your mobile device? If you've downloaded our app, you can apply now by selecting 'Apply in app'.
Apply in app Apply in app for a credit card 
If you're on a desktop, scan the QR code with your mobile device.
More ways to apply 
Apply in browser 
If you're registered for online banking, you can apply now. You'll be able to see your pre-filled application form, submit it, and get an instant decision.
Log on and apply Log on and apply This link will open in a new window 
Register for online banking 
Apply in branch 
It’s usually easiest to apply through the app or online banking, but if you need support you can visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application.
Please bring your mobile phone with you (or a similar device, like a tablet) if you have one.
Find your nearest branch 
New to the UK and need a credit card but not new to credit? 
We may be able to access your international credit history in selected countries to help you apply for an HSBC UK credit card.
Find out about credit cards for international customers 
Frequently asked questions 
What is a Classic Credit card designed to do? 
We created the Classic Credit card for people who are new to credit. Perhaps it's the first time you've thought about having a credit card. If so, this card could help you - because it has a relatively low credit limit compared to our other cards. And as you use it, your credit score is likely to grow - as long as you keep up with your monthly payments.
How does a Classic Credit Card work? 
You can use your HSBC Classic Card in shops and online to buy things. At the end of each monthly statement period, you'll need to repay the balance, either in full or by making the minimum payment as detailed on your statement. You can manage your credit card easily and conveniently by using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
What can a Classic Credit Card be used for? 
Classic Credit Card can be used to build your credit score, make emergency purchases and for payment protection.
You might also be interested in 
Not the right card for you?
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one that matches your needs.
New to credit cards?
A few things to consider when choosing your first credit card.
Access your international credit history
New to the UK? We can help you bring your international credit history with you.
Credit card eligibility checker
Find out which card you might be eligible for - without affecting your credit score.
Standards of Lending Practice 
HSBC adheres to the standards of lending practice guidelines.
Additional information 
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers and purchases will revert to the standard variable rate.
Balances can’t be transferred from all cards, for example those issued by members of HSBC Group, including HSBC UK, first direct, M&S Bank. 
If you have an HSBC UK credit card, you’re eligible to apply for another if you haven’t applied for an HSBC credit card within the past 6 months, and the card isn’t the one you currently have.
Please note, if you currently hold a Classic, Student, Purchase Plus, Balance Transfer, Reward, Premier or Premier World Elite Credit Card with us, you will not be eligible for this product.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/classic/
########Top of main content 
How to avoid credit card charges 
Credit card charges are not what you want to spend your money on. 
Here’s a guide to the different types of fees, when they occur and how to avoid them.
What's the difference between interest and fees? 
Firstly, it’s important to recognise the difference between interest and fees. If you don’t pay off what you owe in full each month – you’ll typically be charged interest on the outstanding amount, known as the balance.
Some credit cards also come with an annual fee, though many don’t. More often, you’ll incur fees for doing, or not doing, something in particular.
Explore: How do credit cards work?
Types of credit card fees 
Missed or late payments 
A fee for making a monthly repayment late. It’s typically £12. You’ll also incur a fee if you pay less than the agreed minimum repayment or if your payment bounces.
Going over your credit limit 
A fee for going beyond your credit card limit – in other words, owing more than a card provider has agreed to lend you at any given time. This fee is also likely to be around £12.
Balance transfer fee 
There’s often a fee for transferring your outstanding balance from one credit card to another. This will be set out in any offer made to you. 
Explore: How to use a balance transfer credit card
Cash withdrawals 
There’s typically a fee for withdrawing cash – known as a cash advance. This will often be a percentage of the amount you withdraw, with a stated minimum fee. The minimum on HSBC credit cards is £3.
Using your credit card outside the UK 
You may have to pay a non-sterling transaction fee for using your card outside the UK and when withdrawing cash.
How to avoid credit card fees 
The good news is, the above fees are avoidable. Here are some tips on how to manage your credit card so you don’t incur fees:
Pay off as much as you can 
Automate your payments 
Change payment dates 
Know your limits 
Set up alerts 
Use a card with 0% interest 
Don't use your credit card to withdraw cash 
Check the terms when travelling 
1. Pay off as much as you can 
Ideally, pay off your balance in full each month. Failing that, pay as much as you can and at the very least your minimum repayment.
Explore: Tips for paying off your credit card
2. Automate your payments 
Direct Debits help you avoid fees and give you one less job to do each month. Set up a recurring monthly payment for as much as you can afford to pay off and at least the minimum repayment.
If you do automate your payments, keep in mind you can still make other payments throughout the month so you can clear the debt faster.
3. Change payment dates 
Pay at the time of month that suits you best. For example, if you get paid on a certain day each month, set up a Direct Debit for the money to come out on that day or the day after. Then you’ll know you can make the payment.
4. Know your limits 
Check the terms of your credit card and keep your borrowing limit in mind. Make sure it’s set at a level you’re comfortable with and don’t go over it. Check your statements and use online banking, or an app to keep an eye on your balance.
Explore: Should you increase your credit limit?
5. Set up alerts 
If you have an HSBC credit card, we’ll send you reminders and alerts when your payments are almost due or you’re approaching your limit. We all need a nudge sometimes – just try to take action if you get one.
6. Use a credit card with a 0% interest period 
Some providers will offer an introductory 0% interest period on balance transfers and/or purchases. You may be able to find offers for fee-free balance transfers, although these aren’t common.
You’ll still need to make a minimum repayment each month and you’ll have to pay interest once the interest-free period ends.
Explore: What is a balance transfer?
7. Don't use your credit card to withdraw cash 
Occasionally you may feel like you have no choice, but try to avoid using your credit card for cash withdrawals. They’re not designed to be used like debit cards and the fees can be large if you’re withdrawing a lot of cash.
8. Check the terms when travelling 
Whether you’re planning on using travel money, a debit card or a credit card when spending outside the UK, be aware of the different factors involved, including fees and security.
Explore: Should you use a card or travel money outside the UK?
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Tips for using your credit card 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How many credit cards should you have? 
5 reasons to care about your credit score 
What to do if you fall behind on debt repayments\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/avoid-credit-card-charges/
########Top of main content 
How to check your credit report 
You can check your credit report through credit reference agencies (CRAs), such as Experian, Equifax and TransUnion. 
CRAs collect and hold secure information about your credit history, which is bound by the Data Protection Act.
Here, we look at:
Why should you check your credit report?
What does your credit report show?
Does checking your credit report affect your credit score?
How much does it cost to check your credit report?
Ways you can check your credit report
How to raise a dispute on your credit report
Why should you check your credit report? 
Checking your credit report can give you an insight into your borrowing history. 
You’ll be able to see the information banks and other lenders use when deciding if they’ll lend to you or not. 
It gives you the opportunity to improve your credit score before you apply for credit, which could increase your chances of being approved. 
What does your credit report show? 
Your credit report includes:
your name, address and date of birth 
your registration on the electoral register 
how much you owe lenders, including any joint loans, mortgages or overdrafts 
any missed or late payments 
any County Court Judgements (CCJs) you have had 
whether your home has been repossessed 
if you’ve ever been declared bankrupt 
Your credit report does not include:
your income 
the amount of money you have, including savings 
any student loans you have 
your criminal record 
your medical history 
parking or driving fines 
late or missed council tax payments 
Does checking your credit report affect your credit score? 
You can check your credit report as often as you like, and it won’t affect your credit score. 
It’s only impacted when lenders do a hard credit check, which generally happens when you apply for credit – not when you check your own credit report. 
Explore: Hard vs soft credit checks: What's the difference?
How much does it cost to check your credit report? 
By law, all CRAs have to provide you with a copy of your credit report for free.
Ways you can check your credit report 
The 3 main credit reference agencies in the UK are Experian, Equifax and TransUnion. Each collect data in a different way, so your credit score can vary depending on which CRA you’re looking at. 
How to check your credit report online 
You can make online requests directly from as many of the CRAs as you like:
check your Experian credit reportcheck your Experian credit report This link will open in a new window 
check your Equifax credit reportcheck your Equifax credit report This link will open in a new window 
check your TransUnion credit reportcheck your TransUnion credit report This link will open in a new window 
You may need to create an account with each of the providers to be able to access your credit report.
How to request a paper copy of your credit report 
If you’d prefer a paper copy of your credit report, you can contact the CRAs direct:
Experian contact informationExperian contact information This link will open in a new window 
Equifax contact informationEquifax contact information This link will open in a new window 
TransUnion contact informationTransUnion contact information This link will open in a new window 
Written requests should include:
your name (and any other names you have been known by, such as a maiden name) 
your full address (and any other addresses you have lived at in the past 6 years) 
your date of birth 
How to raise a dispute on your credit report 
Checking your credit report regularly can help you make sure the information included is accurate. If it’s not, you can make that known. 
To raise a dispute, you’ll need to contact the CRA directly. They’ll be able to let you know the next steps you need to take.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
5 reasons to care about your credit score 
How to improve your credit score 
Hard vs soft credit checks: What’s the difference?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/how-to-check-your-credit-report/
########Top of main content 
What is APR? 
APR means Annual Percentage Rate. It’s the cost of borrowing money over a year on a credit card or loan. It takes into account interest, as well as other charges you may have to pay, such as an annual fee.
What does representative APR mean? 
When you’re looking at potential credit cards or loans, you may see a representative APR advertised. Given that lenders offer different interest rates based on your individual application, representative APR is an example that allows you to compare between lenders and products quickly without having to apply. To advertise the rate as a representative APR, the lender needs to offer the rate to at least 51% of the customers who successfully apply.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What does representative APR include? 
The representative APR includes the rate of interest. For credit cards, there can be different rates so the APR uses the rate which applies to the way the card is most commonly used. This is usually the standard purchase rate. It also takes into account other charges you'd automatically have to pay such as an annual fee or loan arrangement fee.
For credit cards, representative APR is based on a credit limit of £1,200. It assumes you spend the full £1,200 on the first day and then pay it back in equal, regular instalments over a year without spending anything else.
Explore: How do credit cards work?
What does a representative example look like? 
Example 1
Example 2
Purchase rate (variable)	21.9%	18.9%	
Annual fee	£0	£195	
Credit limit	£1,200	£1,200	
Representative APR (variable)	21.9%	59.3%	
What does a representative example look like? 
Purchase rate (variable) Purchase rate (variable)	
Example 1
21.9% 21.9%	
Example 2
18.9% 18.9%	
	
Annual fee Annual fee	
Example 1
£0 £0	
Example 2
£195 £195	
	
Credit limit Credit limit	
Example 1
£1,200 £1,200	
Example 2
£1,200 £1,200	
	
Representative APR (variable) Representative APR (variable)	
Example 1
21.9% 21.9%	
Example 2
59.3% 59.3%	
While the purchase rate in the second example is lower than the first example, the £195 annual fee is included in the representative APR – so the representative APR rises to 59.3%.
However, it's important to note that representative APR doesn't take into account the benefits you can earn from using different kinds of credit cards.
What's not included? 
For credit cards, the representative APR assumes you only use the card for purchases. It doesn't take into account different rates and fees that might apply if you use the card in different ways, such as for balance transfers or cash withdrawals.
It also doesn't include any fees or charges for things like late payments, going over your credit limit or returned payments. Only compulsory charges are included in the representative APR – so charges like payment protection insurance aren't included either.
Explore: What is a balance transfer?
What else do you need to know? 
The representative APR helps you quickly compare credit cards and different types of loans. It will not necessarily match up to what a card or loan actually costs to you. That will depend on the final rate you’re offered, how you use either the credit card or loan and how much you repay each month.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How do credit cards work? 
5 common credit card myths 
How to improve your credit score\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/what-is-apr/
########Top of main content 
What is a credit limit? 
A credit limit is the maximum amount you can borrow on a credit card at any one time. Your lender will set the initial credit limit by looking at various factors. You may be able to change your credit limit overtime, or your lender may change it.
How is your credit limit determined? 
A lender will look at your credit history, as well as other key factors, to decide whether to accept your application and what credit limit to offer.
Some of the key factors a lender will consider are:
your earnings – in particular, what's left over after your normal monthly expenses 
your debts – such as a mortgage, personal loans or other credit cards 
your current credit – the limit on any credit cards, store cards or overdrafts you already have available 
your repayment history – whether you've missed payments on debts in the past 
The lender's goal is to offer you a credit limit they're confident you can afford.
How to find out about your credit card limit 
Your credit limit will be included in the information sent to you when you receive your credit card. It will also be shown on your credit card statement. If you have an online credit card account, you may be able to view your credit limit online, once you’ve logged in.
It’s important to know your credit limit before you start spending on your credit card. It can also be useful to keep track of what you’re spending to make sure you don’t, accidentally, go over your credit limit.
What happens if you go over your credit limit? 
If you make a purchase that pushes your debt beyond your credit card limit, the lender may decline the purchase. However, on some occasions they may let it go through.
If you do go over your limit, it can have consequences – you’ll normally be charged a fee and it could also damage your credit rating. 
If it happens repeatedly, your lender may lower your credit limit, or ask you to pay back the full amount you owe and close your account altogether.
Explore: How to avoid credit card charges
Can you change your credit limit? 
Usually you can request to increase your credit limit by contacting your lender.
You'll need to tell them the new credit limit you'd like. Your lender will then look at your card use and credit history to make a decision to either:
approve the credit limit increase 
offer you an increase but at a lower credit limit than you had applied for 
decline your request 
You can also request to decrease your credit card limit. Reducing your unused credit can make it easier to get a loan or mortgage, as you'll be reducing the amount of credit you have available. It may also help reduce any temptation to spend.
It’s important to think about what is affordable for you. Staying within your credit limit helps maintain your credit score by showing you can manage debt sensibly.
Explore: Should you request a higher credit card limit?
Do credit card limits go up automatically? 
When you apply for a credit card, you may be able to set your preferences with your lender. For example, when we tell you there’s a credit limit increase available to you in the future, it can:
be applied unless you contact us to opt out during the notice period 
only be applied if you confirm to us you want to opt in 
With HSBC, you can change your preferences around this at any time and we’ll keep you updated, depending on your preferences, so you can opt in to the increase, or opt out. 
How to request an increase to your credit card limit 
Some lenders may let you request a higher or lower limit through online banking or a mobile banking app. Others may need you to phone or visit your local branch.
Your lender will have a policy on credit limit increases. Some only offer an increase once you've had the card for 6 months or a year. If you’re thinking of requesting a higher credit limit, make sure you can afford the repayments on anything you spend.
A higher credit limit can mean there’s a greater risk you’re borrowing too much, which could cost more, or take you longer, to pay back.
Tips to increase your credit limit 
If you do want to request a higher credit card limit, there are some things you can do to help improve your chances of having your request to do so approved:
never miss a payment – even paying your credit card bill one day late could impact your chances of getting a credit limit increase in future 
give it time – the longer you've had your card, the more likely you are to get a credit limit increase 
use your card regularly and sensibly, without going too close to your credit limit 
don't ask too often – requesting a credit limit increase too many times can affect your credit score 
Explore: Tips for using your credit card
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Should you increase your credit limit? 
How do credit cards work? 
How to check your credit report\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/what-is-a-credit-limit/
########Top of main content 
What is a reward credit card? 
A reward credit card offers you rewards when you use it, such as cashback, air miles or points you can exchange for shopping vouchers and discounts. 
While reward points can be a smart way to benefit from your everyday spending, it’s important to always spend within your means and understand exactly how the reward program works.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
How do reward credit cards work? 
Banks will offer different rates for earning points for spending and also different things you can use your points for. If you’re considering a reward credit card, think about how you’ll spend and what you’d like to earn. This will impact which type of reward credit card may suit you best. 
Here are some examples of how this can work.
Shopping points 
You may receive points for every purchase you make on your credit card, for instance 1 point for every £1 you spend. The points earned can be accumulated and exchanged for vouchers that you can spend in supermarkets and certain stores.
Cashback 
Some credit cards give you a percentage of what you spend as cashback. For example, if you spend £100 and your card pays 2% cashback, you’ll earn £2. These credit cards generally pay cashback into your account monthly or annually. Some credit cards allow you to convert the cashback into vouchers that you can spend in shops.
Air miles 
If you’re a frequent flyer, it may be worth considering a credit card that earns you air miles on every purchase you make. These earned miles can then be exchanged for flights.
What to consider before taking a reward credit card 
As they offer such rewards, these credit cards may have fees and potentially higher interest rates than other types of cards. 
Before taking a reward credit card, you want to be confident you’ll be able to repay your balance in full each month, as well as any annual fee. If not, you may end up paying more in interest and fees than you earn in rewards.
Explore: What is APR?
How do you redeem credit card reward points? 
If you have an HSBC rewards credit card, you can register with Mastercard Pay with Rewards and start using your reward points right away.
Find out more about using your rewards credit card. 
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Rewards Credit Card 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How do credit cards work? 
Types of credit cards 
How to avoid credit card charges\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/credit-card-rewards-explained/
########Top of main content 
What is a credit score? 
Your credit score is a 3-digit number that indicates how reliable you are at borrowing and repaying money – ranging from ‘very poor’ to ‘excellent’. 
Here, we look at what is seen to be a good credit score, why it matters and how credit scores are calculated. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What is a good credit score? 
There are 3 main credit reference agencies (CRAs) in the UK: Experian, Equifax and TransUnion. They securely hold data about your financial history – known as a credit report – and use it to generate a credit score.
Each agency has its own scoring system, so your credit score may vary slightly depending on which one you choose. However, you’ll probably find that you fall into the same category across all of them. 
Checking your credit report with a CRA is free and doesn’t affect your credit score.
What ‘fair’, ‘good’ and ‘excellent’ credit scores look like for each CRA: 
CRA Excellent Good Fair 
Experian	961 to 999	881 to 960	721 to 880	
Equifax	466 to 700	420 to 465	380 to 419	
TransUnion	628 to 710	604 to 627	566 to 603	
What ‘fair’, ‘good’ and ‘excellent’ credit scores look like for each CRA: 
CRA Experian Experian	
Excellent 961 to 999 961 to 999	
Good 881 to 960 881 to 960	
Fair 721 to 880 721 to 880	
	
CRA Equifax Equifax	
Excellent 466 to 700 466 to 700	
Good 420 to 465 420 to 465	
Fair 380 to 419 380 to 419	
	
CRA TransUnion TransUnion	
Excellent 628 to 710 628 to 710	
Good 604 to 627 604 to 627	
Fair 566 to 603 566 to 603	
Why is your credit score important? 
If you apply to borrow money, lenders will look at your credit score before deciding whether to accept your application. It may also help them decide how much to offer you.
A good score can help you get approved for credit cards, loans and mortgages, while a poor score can stop you getting approved. 
If you have a poor credit score, you may find you're offered a higher interest rate. It can also affect other types of credit agreements, such as mobile phone plans.
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score
How are credit scores calculated? 
Your credit score is calculated using a points system, based on what’s in your credit report – also known as your credit file – which reflects how you’ve managed your debts and bills in the past. 
For example, if you’ve always paid your bills on time, this would have had a positive impact on your score. But a history of missed or late payments would have had a negative impact. 
If you’ve never borrowed money before, it's difficult for lenders to assess the risk of lending to you and your credit score will reflect that.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to get out of debt 
How to improve your credit score 
How to check your credit report\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/what-is-a-credit-score/
########Top of main content 
ISAs or savings accounts 
If your goal is to save money, you'll need to decide where to keep your savings. 
Two options are Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) and savings accounts.
While both could help your money grow, picking the right one (or a combination of both) for your circumstances can help ensure your money grows as fast as possible. 
What is an ISA? 
ISAs are a tax-efficient way to save money. The government sets a limit for how much can be saved each financial year, and doesn't charge any tax on the interest/income you earn. In the current tax year, this limit is £20,000. There are several types of ISAs including:
cash ISAs – these are like ordinary savings accounts, except interest on your savings is protected from tax 
stocks and shares ISAs – these protect various types of investment income from tax 
Some ISAs have certain conditions and bonuses that can help speed up your saving.
What is a savings account? 
You can use a savings account to put away money you don't immediately need in order to earn interest. Depending on your circumstances, you may be charged tax on the interest earned. Some accounts may also have restrictions on making withdrawals. 
Easy access accounts
You can withdraw your money whenever you like without paying a penalty. The interest on these accounts is usually not fixed, so banks may alter the interest rate.
Fixed term accounts
You can put your money away for a set period of time and will earn a fixed rate of interest, but there may be restrictions on how you can access your money.
Regular savings accounts
You can contribute money each month up to a certain limit. These accounts usually offer a slightly higher interest rate than ordinary savings accounts, but there may be restrictions on how you access the money.
What ISAs can offer 
If you’re saving an amount up to £20,000, an ISA offers you a tax-efficient way to save. 
The value of an ISA can also be passed on ISA can also be passed on This link will open in a new window to your spouse, or civil partner, tax-efficiently if you pass away. This isn't the case with an ordinary savings account.
What savings accounts can offer 
There's no annual limit on how much you can put into savings accounts. 
With your Personal Savings Allowance (PSA), you can:
earn up to £1,000 a year in interest on savings without being charged tax if you're a basic rate taxpayer 
earn up to £500 a year without being charged tax if you're a higher rate tax payer 
However, this depends on your individual circumstances and may be subject to change in future. Additional rate taxpayers do not qualify for a PSA.
Some savings accounts can also offer more flexibility in accessing your money. This can be helpful if you’re not comfortable locking away your money for a set period.
Use our savings comparison tool to help find the right savings account for you.
The value of any tax benefits described depends on your individual circumstances. Tax rules may change in the future.
Back to top 
Next steps 
Explore HSBC savings accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Growing your money 
How to save money 
Fixed rate vs variable rate savings accounts\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/isas-vs-types-of-savings-accounts/
########Top of main content 
What is an ISA? 
ISA stands for Individual Savings Account. 
The main benefit of an ISA is you can save, or invest money, without paying income tax on any earned interest, or capital gains tax.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
EN Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
How much can you put in an ISA? 
In the current tax year, you can save up to £20,000 in an ISA. This limit is set by the Government and can change from one financial year to another.
You don't have to declare interest earned or capital gains on savings, or investments, up to that amount on your tax return, so it's tax free. But keep in mind, these rules may be subject to change in the future.
Types of ISAs 
Cash ISAs 
Stocks & shares ISAs 
Lifetime ISAs 
Innovative finance ISAs 
Cash ISAs 
Cash ISAs work like other savings accounts, with the added bonus of being tax efficient. You can choose from:
fixed rate cash ISAs – which offer you a fixed interest rate over a set period of time (not offered by HSBC) 
variable rate cash ISAs – which have a variable interest rate over a set period of time 
Interest rates will vary depending on the bank, or building society, you choose.
Find out more about our cash ISAs
Stocks & shares ISAs 
These enable you to make investments without having to pay income tax, or capital gains tax, on any profits made.
Stocks & shares ISAs give you the potential to earn a greater rate of interest than other savings. But it’s important to remember the value of investments can fall as well as rise and you may not get back what you invested. They should also be considered a medium- to long-term commitment, so you should be prepared to hold them for at least 5 years.
Find out more about our stocks and shares ISAs
Lifetime ISAs 
These are designed to help you save for your first home, or for later life. You can hold both cash and investments within them. They're available for people aged under 40 and you can save up to £4,000 a year, up until the age of 50. 
The Government will top up your savings, adding 25% up to a maximum of £1,000 each year. You'll pay a 25% charge to withdraw from this type of ISA unless you use it to buy your first home, or you're aged 60 or over. 
HSBC doesn't currently offer lifetime ISAs.
Innovative finance ISAs 
This is an ISA that contains peer-to-peer loans instead of cash, or stocks and shares.
HSBC doesn't currently offer innovative finances ISAs.
How many ISAs can you have? 
You can have multiple ISAs in the same tax year, but not more than one of the same type. For example, you could put £10,000 in a cash ISA and £10,000 in a stocks & shares ISA, but you couldn’t spread that money across two different cash ISAs. 
ISA inheritance 
The value of an ISA can be passed on to your spouse, or civil partner, tax-efficiently if you pass away. This isn't the case with an ordinary savings account. For this to take place, the Government requires you:
to be living together at the time of death 
to not be separated by court order, or deed of separation 
to not be in a circumstance where the marriage, or civil partnership, has broken down11 view footnote 1 
Tips on boosting your savings 
You can save into one type of ISA, or in some cases spread your ISA allowance across several types. Regardless of what type of savings account you choose, saving can help you manage your finances. See some tips on how to boost your savings balance.
1 https://www.gov.uk/guidance/manage-additional-permitted-subscriptions-into-an-isa https://www.gov.uk/guidance/manage-additional-permitted-subscriptions-into-an-isa This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC ISAs 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Growing your money 
What is compound interest? 
How to set - and achieve - savings goals\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/what-is-an-isa-account/
########Top of main content 
Types of savings accounts 
From fixed rate and instant access savers to ISAs, there’s a number of savings accounts to choose from. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
EN Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Finding the right one may feel a bit challenging, so to help you find the best savings account for your needs, here are some of the different types available.
What is a fixed rate savings account? 
If you have got long term savings goals in mind, a fixed rate savings account may be right for you. You may be able to get a higher rate of interest compared to an instant access savings account, but you’ll need to lock away your money for a set amount of time. This can be anything from 1 to 3 years, so it’s important to be sure you won’t need access to your savings during the term. If you do access your money, you may need to pay a fee, or receive a loss of interest. 
If you’re an HSBC UK current account customer (excluding Basic Bank Account), you may wish to consider one of these:
Regular Saver 
Fixed Rate Saver 
What is an instant access savings account? 
An instant access saver can be useful if you’ll need to dip into your savings from time to time. You may find the interest rate is lower, compared to a fixed rate savings account, but you won’t need to pay a fee for accessing your money. Some instant access savings accounts may offer a bonus if you don’t make a withdrawal.
You may wish to consider one of these:
Flexible Saver 
If you’re an existing HSBC UK current or savings account customer (excluding Basic Bank Account), you may also wish to consider:
Online Bonus Saver 
HSBC Premier Savings - exclusive to HSBC Premier customers 
Tax-efficient savings accounts 
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) can give you somewhere to keep your money and benefit from tax advantages.
For the current tax year, the ISA limit is £20,000 and you won’t need to pay tax on the interest your ISA earns. There are a range of different ISAs available.
If you’re an HSBC UK current account customer (excluding Basic Bank Account), you may wish to consider a:
Loyalty Cash ISA 
Please note HSBC does not currently offer an innovative finance ISA, or a lifetime ISA.
What is a children's savings account? 
A children’s savings account can be opened by, or on behalf of, a child under the age of 18. They can use it to save their pocket money, and you may also be able to pay into it too. Remember, if the savings account is in your child’s name, it’s your child’s money.
Teaching your children to get into the habit of saving can be a useful skill for later in life. 
You may wish to consider:
MySavings 
Definitions 
AER 
This stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. It shows what the interest rate would be before any tax deductions if interest was paid and compounded each year.
Notice period 
With some accounts you have to let the bank know in advance if you want to take your money out. You could pay a penalty, or lose interest payments if you withdraw money immediately. It's wise to check the notice period required before you open a savings account.
Tax-free 
Free from any UK Income Tax and Capital Gains Tax.
Gross 
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to save money 
Fixed rate vs variable rate savings accounts 
Reasons to save\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/savings-explained/
########Top of main content 
How safe is my money? 
Uncertain times can mean you worry more about your money. Knowing your money is safe is important and can give you confidence, even when times are tough. 
What is the Financial Services Compensation Scheme? 
All banks and building societies authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority are covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). It’s an independent service that protects your money if your financial service provider goes bust. In the unlikely event this happens, you’ll be repaid by a Deposit Guarantee Scheme.
The FSCS guarantees your money up to £85,000 per person, per institution. Joint accounts have protection up to £170,000.
You can find out if your bank or building society is covered by checking the Financial Services Register Financial Services Register This link will open in a new window.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What if I have more than one account at the same bank? 
You’ll be covered up to the maximum of £85,000 for the sum of your accounts at the same bank or building society.
If you have money in accounts at more than one bank or building society, the FSCS has a protection checker protection checker This link will open in a new window you can use to see what’s covered. 
Are stocks & shares ISAs covered by the FSCS? 
You may be able to claim compensation with the FSCS if the provider of your stocks & shares ISA goes bust. 
The level of protection and the amount of compensation on investment products can vary. Some investment products aren’t protected at all. You can check if your investment is protected on the FSCS investments protection checker FSCS investments protection checker This link will open in a new window.
How long will a claim against a failed bank, or building society, take? 
If a bank or building society fails, the FSCS aims to pay compensation within 7 days. Please note, more complex cases may take longer.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Saving vs investing 
Is investing worth the risk? 
Investing for beginners\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/is-my-money-safe/
########Top of main content 
How to save for a house deposit 
Saving for a home is exciting but, given how much you may need for a deposit, it can also be challenging. 
Here are some tips to build your savings quickly.
Look at your spending 
Open a separate savings account 
Set yourself a savings goal 
See if you're eligible for any government first-time buyer schemes 
Do some freelance work 
Save money on rent 
1. Look at your spending 
Analysing your spending habits can help you manage your money. You’ll be able to see if you’re overpaying for anything, and ways you could potentially cut back on your spending. 
Creating a budget can help you set yourself spending limits and determine how much you have spare to save each month. If you’re an HSBC UK customer, you can use tools like the Balance After Bills feature on our mobile banking app. This feature shows you how much you could have left in your account once scheduled Direct Debits and standing orders have been paid. 
Explore: Budget planner
2. Open a separate savings account 
Opening a savings account specifically for your home deposit can help you keep it separate from your everyday spending account and other savings accounts.
The best type of savings account for you will depend on:
How much you need to save 
How often you plan on adding money to your savings 
When you need to have the money saved by 
See how some of the different types of savings accounts work. 
3. Set yourself a savings goal 
Finding out how much could you borrow on a mortgage can help give you an indication of the type of property you could afford. It may also help you work out how much you would need to save for a home deposit. You could then use this to help you set a goal to work towards. 
When saving a deposit for a home, make sure you’re prepared to cover other costs involved in buying a property, such as conveyancing fees and moving costs.
Explore: How to set and achieve savings goals
4. See if you're eligible for any government first-time buyer schemes 
You may be eligible for financial support from the government when it comes to buying your own property.
Explore: What are the government’s home ownership schemes?
5. Do some freelance work 
If you have a skill to share, why not see if you can increase your income by doing a bit of freelance work? You may need to check this is okay with your current employer and look into paying tax, but it can be a useful way to earn some extra cash. 
6. Save money on rent 
It won't always be possible, but downsizing your property is a quick way to cut the cost of rent and increase how much you can save. You can then put the money you would have spent on rent aside for your deposit. You may also be able to reduce the cost of your energy bills if you’re able to move into a smaller property.
Save money by flat sharing 
Moving into a flat share could reduce how much you’re spending on rent each month, which could help bring down your outgoing costs. For example, you may find contributing to energy bills is cheaper than paying for it all on your own. Finding somewhere close to your workplace could also reduce your travel expenses. 
Look at flat share websites or ask friends who may have a room to spare. Make sure to read through your tenancy agreement before agreeing to rent a room – including any stipulations around covering the rent.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Read our everyday spending hacks 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Steps to buying your own home 
How to save money 
How to make an offer on a property\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/how-to-save-for-a-housing-deposit/
########Top of main content 
Savings accounts interest rates 
Online Bonus Saver
Regular Saver
Flexible Saver
HSBC Premier Savings†
HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA
Fixed Rate Saver
MySavings
HSBC Premier MySavings
Products no longer sold
Online Bonus Saver 
Interest including bonus (Variable rate)
(Where you don't make a withdrawal in the month)
Effective date
Amount
Gross
AER
30 June 2023	£1- £50,000	3.93%	4.00%	
30 June 2023	£50,000+	2.28%	2.30%	
8 June 2023 to 29 June 2023	£1- £10,000	3.93%	4.00%	
8 June 2023 to 29 June 2023	£10,000+	2.28%	2.30%	
Interest including bonus (Variable rate)
(Where you don't make a withdrawal in the month)
Effective date
30 June 2023	
Amount
£1- £50,000	
Gross
3.93%	
AER
4.00%	
	
Effective date
30 June 2023	
Amount
£50,000+	
Gross
2.28%	
AER
2.30%	
	
Effective date
8 June 2023 to 29 June 2023	
Amount
£1- £10,000	
Gross
3.93%	
AER
4.00%	
	
Effective date
8 June 2023 to 29 June 2023	
Amount
£10,000+	
Gross
2.28%	
AER
2.30%	
Standard rates
Monthly interest (variable rate)
Effective date
Amount
Gross
AER
10 August 2023
	All balances	1.98%	2.00%	
30 June 2023 to 9 August 2023	All balances	1.74%	1.75%	
Standard rates
Monthly interest (variable rate)
Effective date
10 August 2023
	
Amount
All balances	
Gross
1.98%	
AER
2.00%	
	
Effective date
30 June 2023 to 9 August 2023	
Amount
All balances	
Gross
1.74%	
AER
1.75%	
Regular Saver 
Annual interest (fixed rate) 
Effective date
Amount
Gross
AER
1 December 2022	£25 to £250 per month	5.00%	5.00%	
24 November 2020 to 30 November 2022	£25 to £250 per month
	1.00%
	1.00%
	
Annual interest (fixed rate) 
Effective date
1 December 2022	
Amount
£25 to £250 per month	
Gross
5.00%	
AER
5.00%	
	
Effective date
24 November 2020 to 30 November 2022	
Amount
£25 to £250 per month
	
Gross
1.00%
	
AER
1.00%
	
Flexible Saver 
Monthly interest (variable rate) 
Effective date
Amount
Gross
AER
10 August 2023	All balances	1.98%	2.00%	
30 June 2023 to 9 August 2023	All balances	1.74%	1.75%	
Monthly interest (variable rate) 
Effective date
10 August 2023	
Amount
All balances	
Gross
1.98%	
AER
2.00%	
	
Effective date
30 June 2023 to 9 August 2023	
Amount
All balances	
Gross
1.74%	
AER
1.75%	
HSBC Premier Savings† 
Rate also applies to all cash within the Premier Investment Management Service (PIMS) and Trust Services including Trust Discretionary Investment Services (TDIS).
HSBC Premier Savings † is available to Premier customers only
Monthly interest (variable rate)
Effective date
Amount
Gross
AER
10 August 2023	All balances	2.23%	2.25%	
30 June 2023 to 9 August 2023	All balances	1.98%	2.00%	
Rate also applies to all cash within the Premier Investment Management Service (PIMS) and Trust Services including Trust Discretionary Investment Services (TDIS).
HSBC Premier Savings † is available to Premier customers only
Monthly interest (variable rate)
Effective date
10 August 2023	
Amount
All balances	
Gross
2.23%	
AER
2.25%	
	
Effective date
30 June 2023 to 9 August 2023	
Amount
All balances	
Gross
1.98%	
AER
2.00%	
HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA 
A loyalty rate applies for 12 months from the date of each payment into your ISA. If you make further payments into your ISA, your loyalty rate period will begin again from the date of each payment. Upon the expiry of your loyalty rate period, you will earn a standard rate of interest until you make a further payment.
Interest rates are variable and paid monthly.
HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA – HSBC Premier rates 
Effective date
Loyalty rate
Standard rate
10 August 2023	3.20% AER (3.15% tax free)	2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	
7 July 2023 to 9 August 2023	3.20% AER (3.15% tax free)	2.30% AER (2.28% tax free)	
HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA – HSBC Premier rates 
Effective date
10 August 2023	
Loyalty rate
3.20% AER (3.15% tax free)	
Standard rate
2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	
	
Effective date
7 July 2023 to 9 August 2023	
Loyalty rate
3.20% AER (3.15% tax free)	
Standard rate
2.30% AER (2.28% tax free)	
HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA – Other current account rates 
Effective date
Loyalty rate
Standard rate
10 August 2023	2.85% AER (2.81% tax free)	2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	
7 July 2023 to 9 August 2023	2.70% AER (2.67% tax free)	2.30% AER (2.28% tax free)	
HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA – Other current account rates 
Effective date
10 August 2023	
Loyalty rate
2.85% AER (2.81% tax free)	
Standard rate
2.50% AER (2.47% tax free)	
	
Effective date
7 July 2023 to 9 August 2023	
Loyalty rate
2.70% AER (2.67% tax free)	
Standard rate
2.30% AER (2.28% tax free)	
Fixed Rate Saver 
Fixed for the term of your deposit.
Fixed Rate Saver – both monthly and annual interest products 
Effective date
Term Amount
Gross
AER
29 February 2024	1 year	£2,000+	4.30%	4.30%	
29 February 2024	2 years	£2,000+	4.00%	4.00%	
8 February 2024 to 28 February 2024	1 year	£2,000+	4.35%	4.35%	
8 February 2024 to 28 February 2024	2 years	£2,000+	4.05%	4.05%	
Fixed Rate Saver – both monthly and annual interest products 
Effective date
29 February 2024	
Term 1 year	
Amount
£2,000+	
Gross
4.30%	
AER
4.30%	
	
Effective date
29 February 2024	
Term 2 years	
Amount
£2,000+	
Gross
4.00%	
AER
4.00%	
	
Effective date
8 February 2024 to 28 February 2024	
Term 1 year	
Amount
£2,000+	
Gross
4.35%	
AER
4.35%	
	
Effective date
8 February 2024 to 28 February 2024	
Term 2 years	
Amount
£2,000+	
Gross
4.05%	
AER
4.05%	
MySavings 
MySavings – monthly interest (variable rate) 
Effective date
Amount
Gross
AER
20 July 2023	Up to £3,000	4.89%	5.00%	
10 August 2023	£3,000+	2.23%	2.25%	
8 June 2023 to 19 July 2023	Up to £3,000	4.89%	5.00%	
20 July 2023 to 9 August 2023	£3,000+	1.98%	2.00%	
MySavings – monthly interest (variable rate) 
Effective date
20 July 2023	
Amount
Up to £3,000	
Gross
4.89%	
AER
5.00%	
	
Effective date
10 August 2023	
Amount
£3,000+	
Gross
2.23%	
AER
2.25%	
	
Effective date
8 June 2023 to 19 July 2023	
Amount
Up to £3,000	
Gross
4.89%	
AER
5.00%	
	
Effective date
20 July 2023 to 9 August 2023	
Amount
£3,000+	
Gross
1.98%	
AER
2.00%	
HSBC Premier MySavings 
Effective date
Amount
Gross
AER
20 July 2023	Up to \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/interest-rates/
########Top of main content 
How to top up an ISA 
If you’re looking to make the most of your tax-free allowances, topping up an Individual Savings Account (ISA) is an easy way. 
You can top up a cash ISA whenever you want during the tax year – up to a £20,000 annual limit in the current tax year.
Moving money into your cash ISA 
How you top up will vary depending on your ISA provider.
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can move money into a cash ISA the same way you’d move money into another type of current or savings account. You can do this online, or through our mobile banking app.
You can also transfer money – or an existing ISA – from another bank into your HSBC ISA using our online HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA transfer in form form This link will open in a new window.
To help ensure you meet your savings goal and maximise your tax-free allowance, you may want to consider a standing order. This will mean you’re making regular payments into the ISA.
What if you haven't topped up your cash ISA in a while? 
If you haven’t made a payment – also referred to as a ‘subscription’ – into your cash ISA in the previous tax year, you'll need to make a fresh application if you want to make any further subscriptions. 
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can reactivate an ISA by using our online HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA reactivation form form This link will open in a new window.
If you want to reactivate your ISA before the end of the tax year to make the most of your allowance, make sure you allow a few working days for us to process your application.
Why use your cash ISA? 
Cash ISAs are an effective way to save, and you won’t need to pay tax on the interest you earn.
And if you’re saving for something in particular, like a holiday, or a home, every little bit counts. Even if you don’t have a particular goal in mind, the more money you save, the more financially secure you could become. So, it’s worth taking advantage of your tax-free allowance. 
Your allowance will reset when a new tax year starts. The start of a new tax year could also be a good time to look at any savings accounts you currently have to see if they’re still helping you meet your financial goals.
Log on to, or register for, online banking Log on to, or register for, online banking This link will open in a new window
Things to keep in mind: The value of the tax benefits described depends on individual circumstances. The tax treatment of ISAs could change in the future. Tax free means free of liability to UK Income Tax, or Capital Gains Tax.
Back to top 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Making tax time simpler 
What is an ISA? 
Help to Buy ISAs: what to do now the scheme has ended\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/how-to-top-up-ISA/
########Top of main content 
How to start saving money 
Knowing where to start when you want to save money can feel daunting, but it doesn’t need to be. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
With a few small changes to the way you manage your money, you can create a clear path forward to get to where you want to be financially.
Here are some steps to help you get started.
Pay off any high-interest debts first 
Create a budget 
Open a savings account 
Create savings goals 
Pay yourself first 
Save while you spend 
Keep saving 
1. Pay off any high-interest debts first 
If you have any outstanding debts, you may want to look at paying these off first – starting with the ones that are charging you the most to borrow the money, such as credit cards, store cards and overdrafts. That’s because the interest rate you pay is likely to be higher than the interest you’ll earn from your savings. 
Some debts, such as a mortgage, won’t need to paid right away. Once you’ve covered your monthly repayments, any extra funds can go into your savings. 
Explore: Should you save or pay off debt?
2. Create a budget 
Planning a budget can help you see where you’re spending your money, and where you may be able to make savings. 
Look at your incoming and outgoing costs from the last 3 months to get an idea of what you’re spending and where. Then look at ways you can potentially reduce your outgoings. For example, are you paying subscription services you don’t use? If you’re able to make any savings, you could add the money straight into your savings account. 
Explore: Everyday budgeting 
3. Open a savings account 
Savings accounts can be a smart way to store your money and earn interest. As well as removing the temptation to spend any funds left in your current account, savings accounts enable you to earn interest on your money over time.
What’s more, you can then earn interest on the interest you’ve already earned, speeding up your saving. This is known as compound interest. 
Finding the right type of savings account is key. If you’re happy to lock your money away for a while, a fixed rate savings account can help you maximise the interest you earn. An easy access savings account could give you flexibility to withdraw if you need to, while a regular savings account may offer rewards for regular contributions. There are also Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) that enable you to save without having to pay tax on the interest earned. Check you meet the elgibility criteria when applying for a savings account. For example, you'll need to be an HSBC UK current account customer to open most of our savings accounts.
Our savings comparison tool can help you understand the different accounts we offer, and the key features of each.
The type of savings account that’ll suit you will depend on your goals, how often you plan on contributing, and when you’ll need to access the money.
Explore: Different types of savings accounts
4. Create savings goals 
Whether it’s for a purchase, an event, or peace of mind, having a specific goal to save towards can help you stay focused. Once you have your goal, decide how much money you want to save and how soon you need to save it. Our savings goal calculator could help you see how long it'll take you to reach your target, so you can work out a realistic plan on how you can achieve this
You could also use our calculator to see how much you could save over 12 months with a Regular Saver account. Our Regular Saver is available to HSBC UK current account customers.
If you’re not sure how much you’re able to save a month, you can review your spending and try something like the 50-30-20 guide to see if it could work for you.
You may want to try writing down your savings goals and placing them somewhere visible, like the fridge or create a note in your phone. Having these little reminders can keep your goal at the front of your mind and make it easier to stick to your plan.
5. Pay yourself first 
Prioritising your saving is important for staying on track. If you can, pay money into your savings account as soon as you get paid (allowing enough money left over to cover your mortgage/rent and bills). If you’re saving the same amount each month, you can set up a standing order so you don’t forget to move your money.
6. Save while you spend 
To get into the habit of saving regularly, you could check your balance at the end of each day and put any extra pence into your savings pot. For example, if your balance is £166.05, you could add 5p to your savings. It's an easy way to keep your savings growing while having little impact on your day-to-day spending.
If you want to try something different, you could build up from 1p. You start by paying in 1p to your savings, then 2p the next day, 3p the next day and so on. If you’re able to do this for a year you’ll end up with £667.95, as well as what you earn in interest.
7. Keep saving 
Once you reach your goal, there's no need to stop. According to Money Helper Money Helper This link will open in a new window, you should, ideally, have around 3 months of your living costs saved - to cover you should something unexpected happen. You may end up having different savings pots for different purposes, such as one for your emergency fund and another for a new car.
If you’re struggling to maintain momentum and reach your goal, don’t stop. Saving even a small amount is better than nothing. Work on developing the habit and then try to gradually build the amount you save over time.
What next? 
If you’re finding it difficult to free up the cash to get your savings\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/how-to-save-money/
########Top of main content 
What is compound interest? 
Compound interest is interest earned on previously earned interest. That may sound like a riddle, but it’s worth understanding as it can significantly increase your savings over time. 
Compound interest explained 
You can earn interest on the money you put into a savings account.
For example, if you were to put £1,000 in your savings account at an annual interest rate of 1.5% AER / Gross, you’d earn £15.10 (1.5% AER / Gross of £1,000) of interest in the first full year.
But in the second year, the amount you’d earn would increase – even if the annual interest rate stayed the same – because compound interest starts to kick in.
Compound interest example 
Year Opening balance Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross Closing balance 
1	£1,000.00	£15.10	£1,015.10	
2	£1,015.10	£15.33	£1,030.44	
3	£1,030.44	£15.56	£1,046.00	
4	£1,046.00	£15.80	£1,061.80	
5	£1,061.80	£16.04	£1,077.83	
10	£1,144.44	£17.29	£1,161.73	
Compound interest example 
Year 1 1	
Opening balance £1,000.00 £1,000.00	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £15.10 £15.10	
Closing balance £1,015.10 £1,015.10	
	
Year 2 2	
Opening balance £1,015.10 £1,015.10	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £15.33 £15.33	
Closing balance £1,030.44 £1,030.44	
	
Year 3 3	
Opening balance £1,030.44 £1,030.44	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £15.56 £15.56	
Closing balance £1,046.00 £1,046.00	
	
Year 4 4	
Opening balance £1,046.00 £1,046.00	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £15.80 £15.80	
Closing balance £1,061.80 £1,061.80	
	
Year 5 5	
Opening balance £1,061.80 £1,061.80	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £16.04 £16.04	
Closing balance £1,077.83 £1,077.83	
	
Year 10 10	
Opening balance £1,144.44 £1,144.44	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £17.29 £17.29	
Closing balance £1,161.73 £1,161.73	
So if you left your £1,015.10 (£1,000, plus £15.10 interest earned in the first year) in the same savings account, you’d earn £15.33 (1.5% AER / Gross of £1,015.10) in the second year.
This might not seem like much of a difference, but the impact of compound interest increases over time. This impact is even greater when starting with a larger amount.
Explore: ISAs or savings accounts
Taking advantage of compound interest on a savings account 
The earlier you start saving, the more time you have to earn compound interest. If you can, it’s a good idea to regularly add to your savings account to keep your money growing. For example, if you added £20 a month to that initial £1,000 deposit with an annual interest rate of 1.5% AER / Gross, you'd have:
Compound interest example 
Year Opening balance Total amount added yearly Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross Closing balance 
1	£1,000.00	£240	£17.06	£1,257.06	
2	£1,257.06	£240	£20.95	£1,518.01	
3	£1,518.01	£240	£24.89	£1,782.89	
4	£1,782.89	£240	£28.89	£2,051.78	
5	£2,051.78	£240	£32.95	£2,324.73	
10	£3,458.37	£240	£54.19	£3,752.57	
Compound interest example 
Year 1 1	
Opening balance £1,000.00 £1,000.00	
Total amount added yearly £240 £240	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £17.06 £17.06	
Closing balance £1,257.06 £1,257.06	
	
Year 2 2	
Opening balance £1,257.06 £1,257.06	
Total amount added yearly £240 £240	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £20.95 £20.95	
Closing balance £1,518.01 £1,518.01	
	
Year 3 3	
Opening balance £1,518.01 £1,518.01	
Total amount added yearly £240 £240	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £24.89 £24.89	
Closing balance £1,782.89 £1,782.89	
	
Year 4 4	
Opening balance £1,782.89 £1,782.89	
Total amount added yearly £240 £240	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £28.89 £28.89	
Closing balance £2,051.78 £2,051.78	
	
Year 5 5	
Opening balance £2,051.78 £2,051.78	
Total amount added yearly £240 £240	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £32.95 £32.95	
Closing balance £2,324.73 £2,324.73	
	
Year 10 10	
Opening balance £3,458.37 £3,458.37	
Total amount added yearly £240 £240	
Yearly interest of 1.5% AER / Gross £54.19 £54.19	
Closing balance £3,752.57 £3,752.57	
If you can, it's best to avoid taking money out of your savings account as that reduces the amount of interest you can earn.
Explore: Fixed rate vs variable rate savings accounts
How compounding works on investments 
When thinking about how much your money could earn, remember to also consider the impact of inflation. As time goes by, inflation can reduce the total value of your savings because you’ll be able to buy less with the money.
If you want to find a way to potentially beat inflation, you might want to consider investing. With investing, you don’t earn interest. Instead, you’re aiming to get a return on the money you invest. The effect of compounding over time means you could get a return not just on the initial amount you invest, but also on your earnings.
Keep in mind that with investing there are no guarantees, and there’s a chance you may not get back what you put in.
You should always plan to invest for 5 years or more to give your money more time to recover from any market dips. However, your money’s not locked away – it can be accessed at any time.
To see how much your money could be worth in years to come, under different market conditions, try our investment calculator.
Explore: New to investing?
Compound interest on lending 
Compound interest doesn’t just apply to growing your money. Some forms of lending may also be subject to compound interest, including some credit cards and loans – meaning you’ll owe interest on the interest you’ve previously accrued. 
Explore: How to repay debts
Definitions 
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. This shows how much interest you’ll earn if you keep your savings in the account for a full year. All banks and building societies show their interest rate as AER, which can help make it easier when comparing savings accounts. 
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted. Basic rate taxpayers (20%) have a Personal Savings Allowance of £1,000 – meaning they don’t need to pay tax on any interest ea\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/what-is-compound-interest/
########Top of main content 
Fixed rate vs variable rate savings accounts 
Choosing the right account for your savings can make your money work harder and help you reach your goals faster. 
Many savings accounts come with either a variable interest rate, or fixed interest rate. Understanding the differences between the two is important.
To help, we’ve taken a look at both so you can find the right savings account for you. 
What is a fixed rate savings account? 
With a fixed rate savings account, you lock away your savings for a set amount of time at a set interest rate. It’s also known as a fixed term bond. You may be able to choose how long your savings are locked away for, or it may be an amount of time set by the bank. This will depend on the fixed rate savings account and provider you choose.
Here are some of the pros and cons of opening a fixed rate savings account.
Advantages Disadvantages
The interest rate may be higher compared to some instant access savings accounts.	If you access your savings before the end of the term, you may need to pay a fee.	
The interest rate is fixed for the term of your account, meaning you know how much you'll earn.	If interest rates rise, your rate will remain the same for the rest of the term.	
Interest can be paid directly into your account – so you can watch your savings grow.	You will not be able to add savings to your account during the term of the fixed rate.	
You won't be able to dip into your savings, so it can reduce the temptation to spend.	You may need to put a minimum amount into a fixed rate savings account to open it.	
Here are some of the pros and cons of opening a fixed rate savings account.
Advantages The interest rate may be higher compared to some instant access savings accounts. The interest rate may be higher compared to some instant access savings accounts.	
Disadvantages
If you access your savings before the end of the term, you may need to pay a fee. If you access your savings before the end of the term, you may need to pay a fee.	
	
Advantages The interest rate is fixed for the term of your account, meaning you know how much you'll earn. The interest rate is fixed for the term of your account, meaning you know how much you'll earn.	
Disadvantages
If interest rates rise, your rate will remain the same for the rest of the term. If interest rates rise, your rate will remain the same for the rest of the term.	
	
Advantages Interest can be paid directly into your account – so you can watch your savings grow. Interest can be paid directly into your account – so you can watch your savings grow.	
Disadvantages
You will not be able to add savings to your account during the term of the fixed rate. You will not be able to add savings to your account during the term of the fixed rate.	
	
Advantages You won't be able to dip into your savings, so it can reduce the temptation to spend. You won't be able to dip into your savings, so it can reduce the temptation to spend.	
Disadvantages
You may need to put a minimum amount into a fixed rate savings account to open it. You may need to put a minimum amount into a fixed rate savings account to open it.	
If you’re an HSBC current account customer, you may want to look into a Regular Saver account.
Calculate how much you could save over 12 months with a Regular Saver.
What is a variable rate savings account? 
A savings account with a variable interest rate means the rate you receive when you open your account can change. Your bank will need to let you know in advance of this happening.
Some variable interest savings accounts can also be easy access, meaning you can dip into your savings if you need to.
Here are some of the pros and cons of opening a variable rate savings account. 
Advantages Disadvantages
Variable rate savings accounts can be flexible – meaning you could move to a different account with better interest.	The variable interest rate on your account can change – meaning it can go up and down.	
You may find a wider range of variable interest savings accounts to choose from compared to fixed rate savings accounts.	As the interest rate can change, you may not be able to plan ahead as accurately when compared to fixed rate savings accounts.	
You can add to your savings whenever you want to keep them growing.	You may be getting a lower rate of interest compared to fixed rate savings accounts.	
Here are some of the pros and cons of opening a variable rate savings account. 
Advantages Variable rate savings accounts can be flexible – meaning you could move to a different account with better interest. Variable rate savings accounts can be flexible – meaning you could move to a different account with better interest.	
Disadvantages
The variable interest rate on your account can change – meaning it can go up and down. The variable interest rate on your account can change – meaning it can go up and down.	
	
Advantages You may find a wider range of variable interest savings accounts to choose from compared to fixed rate savings accounts. You may find a wider range of variable interest savings accounts to choose from compared to fixed rate savings accounts.	
Disadvantages
As the interest rate can change, you may not be able to plan ahead as accurately when compared to fixed rate savings accounts. As the interest rate can change, you may not be able to plan ahead as accurately when compared to fixed rate savings accounts.	
	
Advantages You can add to your savings whenever you want to keep them growing. You can add to your savings whenever you want to keep them growing.	
Disadvantages
You may be getting a lower rate of interest compared to fixed rate savings accounts. You may be getting a lower rate of interest compared to fixed rate savings accounts.	
It’s important to be aware of the terms and conditions of any savings account you open. With many savings accounts, you need to stick to these to make the most of any interest, or other benefits.
What next? 
There are many reasons you may want to start saving. \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/fixed-rate-vs-variable-rate-explained/
########Top of main content 
How to save money as a couple 
From home improvements to holidays, opening a joint savings account can help you save money and reach your goals together. 
You may find it different from saving on your own. On one hand, you’ll have someone to help you stay accountable, and your savings will hopefully grow faster. On the other hand, you’ll need to have trust and potentially some ground rules established.
Here are some tips to get started.
Set a goal together 
Setting a goal can help you save money faster, as you have something to aim for. Whether you need a certain amount for a home deposit – or you want to top up an emergency fund – decide what you want to save for together.
Plan how you'll save 
It’s worth sitting down together and deciding how you’ll save.
Will you both add the same amount to your joint saver each month? Or will you add a percentage of your income if one of you earns more money?
Think about when you want to reach your savings goal, too. Is there a specific deadline you need the money saved for? Our savings goal calculator could help you see how long it’ll take you to reach your target, which could help you work towards a more specific timeline.
Think about when you'll save too. It can be helpful to pay straight into your savings account when you get paid to avoid accidentally spending the money.
Also, are there circumstances where you'll dip into your savings? If so, set yourself rules around this so you can avoid any arguments down the line.
Explore: How to talk about money
Save in the right place 
Opening a joint savings account gives you a place to keep your money. You may also be able to earn interest on your savings. If you plan on saving the same amount each month, you can set up a standing order from your joint current account or from your individual bank accounts.
As savings accounts aren't reported to credit reference agencies, opening a joint savings account won’t appear on your credit history.
An Individual Savings Account (ISA) can only be held in one person’s name, so you can’t open a joint ISA. 
Explore: Savings explained
Make the most of tax allowances 
If you’re married or in a civil partnership, you may be eligible for marriage allowance, where the lower earner can transfer 10% of their Personal Allowance to their partner. It increases their partner’s Personal Allowance – reducing their income tax by up to £252 each tax year.
To be eligible To be eligible This link will open in a new window, one of you will need to earn less than the Personal Allowance limit, and the other will need to be paying the basic 20% rate limit. Different rates apply in Scotland.
Remember – the value of tax benefits depends on your circumstances and tax rules, and rates may change in the future.
Keep track of your savings 
Regularly reviewing your progress against your goal will help you stay on track. You’ll be able to see how much more you need to reach your target and spot any issues.
If you think it'll help, set yourselves milestones along the way where you can celebrate the progress made. For example, ‘When we reach £1,000, we’ll order a takeaway from our favourite restaurant'.
If things aren’t going to plan, review your finances. You might find you’re overspending at the supermarket, or there’s a bill you didn’t include in your initial budget. It can help you understand why you’re not saving as much as you’d like and highlight any areas where you could make further changes.
Explore: Understanding your spending
Back to top 
What next? 
Challenges to help you save money 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a joint loan? 
Opening a joint account 
Merging your money\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/money-saving-tips-for-couple/
########Top of main content 
Personal Savings Allowance 
Most UK taxpayers receive a ‘Personal Savings Allowance’(PSA) that lets you earn interest on your savings, up to a certain limit, without being taxed. 
How much is the Personal Savings Allowance? 
Tax bracket Personal Savings Allowance 
20% tax bracket	Up to £1,000	
40% tax bracket	Up to £500	
Additional rate taxpayers	No allowance	
How much is the Personal Savings Allowance? 
Tax bracket 20% tax bracket 20% tax bracket	
Personal Savings Allowance Up to £1,000 Up to £1,000	
	
Tax bracket 40% tax bracket 40% tax bracket	
Personal Savings Allowance Up to £500 Up to £500	
	
Tax bracket Additional rate taxpayers Additional rate taxpayers	
Personal Savings Allowance No allowance No allowance	
Your Personal Savings Allowance will depend on what tax bracket you fall into.
What is savings income? 
Savings income is the amount of money you earn from your savings. This includes:
interest from banks and building societies 
interest from other account providers, such as credit unions 
interest distributions (but not dividend distributions) from authorised unit trusts, open-ended investment companies and investment trusts 
income from government, or company bonds 
some types of purchased life annuity payments 
gains from certain life insurance contracts 
Is ISA interest included in the Personal Savings Allowance? 
Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) and some National Savings and Investments (NS&I) products are excluded from the Personal Savings Allowance. This is because the interest they earn is already tax-free.
What if your savings income exceeds the Personal Savings Allowance? 
If your savings interest exceeds your Personal Savings Allowance, HMRC will collect any tax you owe on your savings accounts. This is usually done through a change to your tax code (based on information provided by banks and building societies), or through your annual tax return if you complete one.
What if you’ve paid too much tax on your savings interest? 
If you’ve paid too much tax, you may be able to claim this back. You’ll need to fill in form R40 (or form R43 if living outside the UK) and send it to HMRC. These forms are available online at GOV.UK GOV.UK This link will open in a new window. You can claim back overpaid tax on your savings from up to 4 years prior. 
What if your accounts relate to an organisation, or an estate? 
Only individuals get a Personal Savings Allowance. If your accounts relate to a business, charity, club or association, they'll earn interest without tax deducted.
If you’re a trustee or are administering an estate, HSBC won’t deduct the tax from the credit interest paid. Any tax due will have to be paid through the trust/estate tax return.
What next? 
Opening a savings account can help boost your savings. Use our savings comparison tool to understand the different accounts we offer.
If you need more guidance on your Personal Savings Allowance, visit HMRC HMRC This link will open in a new window, or speak to a tax adviser.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Growing your money 
How to save money 
All our savings accounts\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/personal-savings-allowance/
########Top of main content 
Wedding Loans 
Spread the cost of your special day 
Turn your dream wedding into a reality 
A wedding loan could help you prepare for the big day. Borrow between £1,000 to £25,000 and get fixed monthly payments over a period of up to 60 months for loans up to £15,000, or up to 96 months for loans over £15,000.
Quick credit decision and instant access to funds (after signed loan agreement is received) for HSBC current account customers 
Make overpayments free of charge 
No arrangement fee 
Representative APR 
For loans between £7,000 and £15,0006.9% APR Representative
Wedding Loan calculator 
Calculate your monthly loan repayments 
Use the sliders to adjust how much you'd like to borrow and over how many months.
We may be able to offer you a better rate if you change the amount you want to borrow or the length of time you borrow for. A small change can make a big difference to how much interest you'll pay and the overall cost of the loan. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances.
See full details of our Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB).Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB). This link will open in a new window
How much would you like to borrow?
Enter a value between 1,000 and 25,000
This is a How much would you like to borrow? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
7,000
APR6.9%
GBP 1,000
GBP 25,000
Over how many months?
Enter a value between 12 and 60
This is a Over how many months? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other
APR6.9%
12 months
60 months
Representative example*
Total amount payable
GBP 8,255.40
Monthly repayment
GBP 137.59
Representative
6.9% APR
Interest rate p.a. fixed
6.9%
Who can apply?
Why get a Wedding Loan with us? 
Borrow from £1,000 to £25,000, or up to £50,000 for HSBC Premier account holders 
Always know what you'll have to pay with fixed monthly repayments spread over 1 to 5 years for loans of £15,000 or less, or over 1 to 8 years for loans over £15,000. 
Get a quick decision 
If you're an HSBC current account holder you can get an instant credit decision, while non-HSBC current account customers should get a credit decision in 2 to 5 working days. 
Quick access to funds 
Existing HSBC current account customers could receive the money instantly once your application has been approved and the loan agreement has been signed. Non-HSBC current account customers could receive the money into a nominated account 3 working days after the signed loan agreement is received. 
Make overpayments free of charge 
Manage your finances the way you want with the flexibility to overpay, which could reduce the amount of interest you have to pay. 
Rate information 
6.9% APR representative 
This rate is available for loans between £7,000 and £15,000.
*The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 22.9%.
The APR may vary based on amount borrowed. Please use the calculator or the loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB)loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB) This link will open in a new window for more details.
Things to know about our wedding loans 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if you:
are over 18 and a resident of the UK
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £10,000 or more
have a bank or building society account with a Direct Debit facility
Not available for customers with a Basic Bank Account.
For joint loan applications, please call us on 03457 404 404. Joint loans are not available online or in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Our loans are subject to status.
What you can't use your loan for 
We don't offer Personal Loans for a number of purposes including:
the purchase of property or land (both UK & Overseas) including holiday homes and apartments
purchasing a joint stake in a property or buying out a joint owner
mortgage deposit (regardless of lender or country)
gifting funds to third parties to support the purchase of a property, including mortgage deposit, stamp duty and solicitors fees
gambling
business purposes
sharedealing
Loan information 
Fixed repayment terms
spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for Personal Loans of £15,000 and less
spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years for Personal Loans of over £15,000
the first repayment is due 1 month from drawdown
repayments will be taken monthly from your nominated current account

Debt consolidation considerations
if you're using any part of this loan to pay off or reduce existing loans/debts (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of this loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans/debts
spreading your payments over a longer term means you could end up paying more overall than under your existing arrangements, even if the interest rate on this new loan is less than the rates you're currently paying
you should also consider if any early repayment charges apply and if this form of borrowing is appropriate for your circumstances
Interest
at the beginning of the loan we work out the interest you'll pay over the whole period of your loan and add this to your loan balance
Early repayments
you can repay your loan in full at any time by giving us notice in writing, by visiting a branch or by calling us on 03457 404 404
once you've given us notice, we'll give you a settlement figure. It's necessary to pay all the amounts owed if you wish to close the loan
if you make an early repayment there may be a reduction in the amount of interest you'll have to pay and this will be reflected in the settlement figure
the settlement figure will include interest up to the date which is 28 days after you\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/products/wedding-loan/
########Top of main content 
How to manage and pay off your loan 
Staying on track with your loan repayments can give you peace of mind, help you avoid fees and make sure your credit score isn’t damaged. 
You can also repay all (or part) of the loan early to save money on interest.
Here, we look at:
6 ways to manage your loan repayments 
Can you pay off a loan early?
Does paying off a loan early affect your credit score?
Things to ask yourself before paying off a loan
How to pay off your HSBC Personal Loan early
6 ways to manage your loan repayments 
1. Include loan repayments in your budget 
Treat your repayments like any other bill and account for them in your budget. This can help prevent you being left short the week before payday.
2. Set up a Direct Debit 
Arranging for your loan repayments to come out of your bank account automatically can help make sure they're always made on time. If you set up a Direct Debit, you won’t have to worry about forgetting to pay.
3. Check your account regularly 
Make sure you have enough money in your current account to cover any loan repayments. If you’re an HSBC customer, you can set up text alerts when your balance goes below a certain amount.
Explore: Online money management tools
4. Track loan repayments on the go 
Your lender may have an app to make accessing your accounts easy, no matter where you are.
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can download the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app to check your balance and track payments on the go. Device restrictions apply.
5. Tell your lender if you can't make a loan repayment 
If circumstances change and you’re struggling to keep up with your repayments, contact your lender as soon as possible. They’ll be able to work with you to help you find a solution. The further you fall behind, the harder it will be to get back on track, so it’s important to address the issue as soon as possible.
If you miss a payment or default on your personal loan, it can impact your credit score. This can make it more difficult for you to borrow in the future.
If you think it’s a long-term issue, ask for some breathing space while you seek independent help. Organisations such as Citizens Advice and StepChange offer free confidential support and advice.
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can get in touch with us to talk about your options.
6. Pay extra towards your loan, if possible 
If you find you have some extra cash left over at the end of the month, you could overpay your personal loan. This can help you pay off your debt faster.
However, depending on the type of personal loan you have, there may be an early repayment charge (ERC). If this is the case, weigh up whether the money you would save in interest by repaying early is greater than any charges.
If you have an HSBC Personal Loan, you can make as many overpayments as you like, without facing any fees or charges.
Can you pay off a loan early? 
A lender must allow you to repay a loan early in full, but they can issue an early repayment charge. Some loan providers may also charge additional fees. It's important to check the terms and conditions of the loan before you make an early settlement.
Does paying off a loan early affect your credit score? 
Making regular loan repayments for the term of the loan can help improve your credit score, as it shows you’ve got your finances under control.
Paying off a loan early means you'll no longer have a record of making these regular payments each month. In some cases, paying off a loan early could negatively affect your credit score. Although, any dip in your credit score is likely to be temporary and minor, and it could still be worthwhile trying to repay your loan early. 
Things to ask yourself before paying off a loan 
Is paying off your loan financially worthwhile? 
Paying off your loan early can save you money on interest. However, if there are fees or early repayment charges, it may end up costing you more. 
Can you comfortably afford to pay off your loan? 
If you were to pay off your loan, could you still afford your everyday expenses and other bills, and have some savings left over as an emergency fund?
Do you have higher-interest debts to pay? 
Credit cards typically carry higher interest rates than personal loans. A cost-effective option could be to pay off expensive debts first – as they’re charging you the most to borrow the money. You’ll still need to meet the minimum repayments on all your debts.
How to pay off your HSBC Personal Loan early 
If you have an HSBC Personal Loan, you can repay all, or part, of the loan early with no early repayment charge.
You can do this by making a transfer online or through our mobile banking app. You can also call us or visit one of our branches. The loan will close automatically once the balance is zero.
If you repay part of the loan early, your monthly repayments will stay the same, but you may repay the loan quicker and reduce the amount of interest you have to pay in total. 
Explore: Making payments
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to do if you fall behind on debt repayments 
How to manage bills 
5 reasons to care about your credit score\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/how-to-manage-your-loan-repayments/
########Top of main content 
What are some of the different types of loans? 
There are different types of loans, with different terms and uses, such as buying a home, or consolidating other debts. 
Being clear about your reason for borrowing, as well as the finer details, can help you find the right loan for you.
Some types of loans you may come across include:
secured loans 
unsecured loans 
joint loans 
credit union loans 
payday loans 
peer-to-peer loans 
bridge loans 
guarantor loans 
What is a secured loan? 
Secured loans – also known as home loans or homeowner loans – allow you to borrow money against your home. 
Your home acts as 'security' for the loan. For example, a mortgage is a type of secured loan because the lender can repossess and sell the property if you’re unable to meet the repayments.
That’s why it’s important to think carefully about securing debts against your home. 
What is an unsecured loan? 
Unsecured loans – also known as personal loans – allow you to borrow money from a lender, such as a bank. You’ll agree to make regular repayments over a fixed term – until the loan, plus interest, is repaid in full. Unsecured loans aren't tied to an asset, such as your home. 
They can be helpful if you want to borrow money for home improvements, such as a new kitchen, buy a car, fund a wedding or consolidate debts. 
What is a joint loan? 
A joint loan is when you take out a loan with someone you trust, such as a partner, relative or friend. This can be a secured loan, such as a mortgage, or an unsecured personal loan. Credit cards, however, can’t be taken out jointly. Even if there’s an additional cardholder, the main cardholder is responsible for paying off the credit card.
Explore: Pros and cons of borrowing money together
What is a credit union loan? 
A credit union is a co-operative where members combine savings to provide each other with credit. To be a member, you need to share a common bond with other members, such as living or working in the same area.
HSBC doesn’t offer credit union loans. 
What is a payday loan? 
Payday loans are typically small, short-term loans, available online or on the high street. You’re usually given up to a month to pay back the money you borrow plus interest, which can be high. 
It’s important to understand the terms of the loan and what happens if you’re unable to pay it back. Ideally, you should consider alternative ways of borrowing before you borrow from a payday lender. If you’re worried about money, there is help available.
HSBC doesn’t offer payday loans.
What is a peer-to-peer loan? 
Peer-to-peer (P2P) lending works by matching borrowers with lenders through P2P lending platforms. These platforms work like marketplaces – bringing together individuals or businesses that want to lend money, with those that want a loan.
Depending on the platform, you may not have the same protection as when you borrow in other ways. Some peer-to-peer platforms are regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority; others are not.
HSBC doesn’t offer P2P loans.
What is a bridge loan? 
Bridge loans – also known as interim financing or bridging loans – provide short-term funding to help ‘bridge the gap’ during times when financing is needed but not yet available. For example, a bridge loan might help someone purchase a new home, while they wait for their current one to sell. 
HSBC doesn’t offer bridge loans.
What is a guarantor loan? 
A guarantor loan is a type of lending where someone acts as a ‘guarantor’. This person guarantees to repay the debt if the borrower can’t afford to. For example, some lenders will only provide a loan to someone with poor credit if they have a guarantor.
HSBC doesn’t offer guarantor loans. 
Things to consider 
Before taking out any type of loan, make sure you’re aware of all the fees and charges. And calculate your potential loan repayments to make sure you can afford them.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to check before applying for a loan 
Secured vs unsecured loans explained 
What is a loan shark?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/different-loan-types/
########Top of main content 
What to check before applying for a loan 
If you want to fund home improvements or buy a new car, a personal loan can give you a helping hand. 
But before you apply for a loan, there are some things you need to consider.
1. What will the loan repayments be? 
Use our personal loan calculator to see at how much your repayments could be and how that may impact your budget. 
If you’re looking at a personal loan with a variable interest rate, remember the interest rate could go up or down. If it were to go up, could you still afford the repayments? If not, consider reducing the loan amount or extending the loan term.
2. What's the term of the loan? 
The loan term impacts the amount of interest you’ll pay and the overall cost of the loan. The longer the loan term is, the less your regular repayments will be. But you'll likely end up paying more interest over the course of the loan. Again, you can use our loan repayment calculator to look at how changing the loan term may affect how much interest you pay.
Once you take the loan out, the interest rate given to you will remain for the term of the loan.
3. What exactly are the fees and charges? 
Loans are advertised with a representative APR (Annual Percentage Rate) that allows you to compare the available offers from different banks. However, the final interest rate you'll be offered will be determined by: 
your financial history 
your circumstances 
how much money you want to borrow 
how long you want to borrow the money for 
Look for any additional charges associated with taking out the loan. For example, some lenders may charge an arrangement fee. These, together with the interest rate, can make a big difference to the overall cost of the loan.
With an HSBC personal loan, there is no arrangement fee to pay. 
Explore: How do personal loans work?
4. Is there a penalty for early repayment? 
Some lenders will charge you a fee for paying off your loan early. If you feel this is something you might want to do, then finding a loan without this fee could be a key requirement.
With an HSBC personal loan, you can manage your finances the way you want with the flexibility to overpay – free of charge.
5. How's your credit report looking? 
Your borrowing and financial history can determine your credit score and whether you're approved for a personal loan. It can also affect the amount of money and interest rate you’re offered. 
Credit reports detailing your financial history are held by 3 credit reference agencies:
TransUnion 
Equifax 
Experian 
It can be a good idea to check your credit report to spot and correct any mistakes on your file. Remember that your credit report won’t tell you whether or not you’ll be approved, as it isn’t the only factor a bank will consider when making a decision. 
6. Is a personal loan the right option? 
A personal loan isn’t the only choice available. Are you able to delay the spending and take time to save the money? Even if you can’t save up the whole amount, saving a portion of it will put you in a better position.
7. Is the loan secured or unsecured? 
A secured loan is one where you use an asset (such as a car or property) as security for a reduced interest rate. This asset will be at risk if you can’t repay the loan. With an unsecured loan, you don’t provide security, but the amount you can borrow is typically smaller. 
HSBC offers secured loans – in the form of mortgages – and unsecured loans. 
Explore: Secured vs unsecured loans explained
8. Are you ready to apply for a loan? 
Getting a quote for a loan won’t usually appear on your credit report, but making an application often will. Too many applications can harm your credit report, so it’s wise to be sure that a particular loan is right for you before you apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Tips for a successful loan application 
What is a personal loan? 
What is a joint loan?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/things-to-check-before-you-apply-for-a-loan/
########Top of main content 
What is debt consolidation? 
Debt consolidation is the process of merging multiple debts, including loans, credit cards, and overdrafts, into a single loan – to help simplify repayments and reduce stress. 
How does debt consolidation work? 
If you have several debts with different financial institutions, it can be hard to know what the best path forward is. You may have:
credit cards 
store cards 
overdrafts 
personal loans 
Deciding where and when to make repayments can be difficult, as each debt may have a different interest rate and repayment frequency. For example, if you have 2 credit cards, a store card, and a personal loan, you could be making 4 repayments every month. One of these may have a higher interest rate than the others. 
A debt consolidation loan can merge these debts into 1 loan to lower your monthly payments. It gives you a single interest rate, one recurring repayment, and a clear loan term.
Things to consider before taking a debt consolidation loan 
Will you end up paying more overall? 
While a debt consolidation loan may reduce the stress and effort of managing multiple debts, it’s important to check how it will impact your total repayment amount.
Even if the interest rate on a new loan is lower than any current debts you have, if the new loan has a longer term, you may still end up paying more interest than you’re currently paying. 
The amount you borrow, loan term, and interest rate will determine how much interest you pay. You can use our loan repayment calculator to estimate how much this could be. 
You’ll need to look at how much your ‘total amount payable’ will be if you continue with your current repayments so you can compare the two options.
Are there early repayment fees on your current debt? 
When you consolidate your debt, the money you owe on other loans, for example, will be paid off. It’s worth checking the terms and conditions of your existing debt, as there may be an early repayment fee. If so, it’s important to factor this into your calculations.
Can you afford the new debt consolidation loan payments? 
You need to be able to meet the new loan payments – to avoid going into further debt and making a difficult situation worse. Creating a budget can help you see how much you can comfortably pay each month.
How debt consolidation loans affect your credit score 
When you apply for a debt consolidation loan, the lender will carry out a hard credit check, which leaves a visible footprint on your credit report. This can negatively affect your credit score.
However, as you start to pay off debt, your credit score is likely to improve over time – as long as you meet the repayments and avoid taking on more debt.
Explore: How to improve your credit score
We’re here to help 
Consolidating debt can provide an opportunity to cut your spending and get back on track. However, if you’re regularly using credit to pay for everyday essentials, this could be a sign that you’re in financial difficulty – and a debt consolidation loan may not be the best solution. 
If you need help getting your finances back on track, HSBC has trained specialists you can speak with.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Debt Consolidation Loan 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to prioritise your debts 
What to do if you fall behind on debt repayments 
What is a balance transfer credit card?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/what-is-debt-consolidation/
########Top of main content 
Personal Loan calculator 
Find out your estimated representative interest rates and monthly repayments without impacting your credit score. 
Calculate your monthly loan repayments 
Use the sliders to adjust how much you'd like to borrow and over how many months.
We may be able to offer you a better rate if you change the amount you want to borrow or the length of time you borrow for. A small change can make a big difference to how much interest you'll pay and the overall cost of the loan. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances.
See full details of our Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB).Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB). This link will open in a new window
How much would you like to borrow?
Enter a value between 1,000 and 25,000
This is a How much would you like to borrow? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
7,000
APR6.9%
GBP 1,000
GBP 25,000
Over how many months?
Enter a value between 12 and 60
This is a Over how many months? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other
APR6.9%
12 months
60 months
Representative example*
Total amount payable
GBP 8,255.40
Monthly repayment
GBP 137.59
Representative
6.9% APR
Interest rate p.a. fixed
6.9%
Who can apply?
Rate information 
6.9% APR representative.
This rate is available for loans between £7,000 and £15,000.
*The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 22.9%.
The APR may vary based on amount borrowed. Please use the calculator or the loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB)loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB) This link will open in a new window for more details.
Things to know about our Personal Loans 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if you:
Are over 18 and a resident of the UK
Have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £10,000 or more
Have a bank or building society account with a Direct Debit facility
Not available for customers with a Basic Bank Account.
For joint loan applications, please call us on 03457 404 404. Joint loans are not available online or in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Our loans are subject to status.
What you can't use your loan for 
We don't offer Personal Loans for a number of purposes including:
The purchase of property or land (both in the UK and overseas) including holiday homes and apartments
Purchasing a joint stake in a property or buying out a joint owner
Mortgage deposit (regardless of lender or country)
Gifting funds to third parties to support the purchase of a property, including mortgage deposit, stamp duty and solicitors fees
Gambling
Business purposes
Sharedealing
More about our loans 
Important documents 
Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 43KB) Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 43KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 498KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 498KB) Download 
Personal Loan Terms & Conditions (PDF, 67KB) Personal Loan Terms & Conditions (PDF, 67KB) Download 
Loan information 
Fixed repayment terms
Spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for Personal Loans of £15,000 and less
Spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years for Personal Loans of over £15,000
The first repayment is due 1 month from drawdown
Repayments will be taken monthly from your nominated current account
Lending consolidation considerations
If you're using any part of this loan to consolidate other lending (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of this loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans/other lending
Spreading your repayments over a longer term means you could end up paying more overall than under your existing arrangements, even if the interest rate on this new loan is less than the rates you're currently paying
You should also consider if any early repayment charges apply and if this form of borrowing is appropriate for your circumstances
Interest 
At the beginning of the loan we work out the interest you'll pay over the whole period of your loan and add this to your loan balance
Early repayments 
You can repay your loan in full at any time by giving us notice in writing, by visiting a branch or by calling us on 03457 404 404
Once you've given us notice, we'll give you a settlement figure. It's necessary to pay all the amounts owed if you wish to close the loan
If you make an early repayment there may be a reduction in the amount of interest you'll have to pay and this will be reflected in the settlement figure
The settlement figure will include interest up to the date which is 28 days after you tell us you want to repay the loan, plus an additional month
Responsible lending 
If you think there might be a change in your circumstances that could increase your outgoings or reduce your disposable income, please contact us by phone or in branch for further guidance. Changes to consider are:
Employment changes such as imminent retirement, maternity, paternity or extended leave
Reduction in working hours, fixed contract end dates or zero hour contracts
An increase in living costs such as rent or mortgage repayments
Apply for additional borrowing 
You can apply to borrow more money by applying online, by phone or in branch
Our credit facilities 
You can get full details of our credit facilities, including a written quotation, from any of our branches or by writing to:
Customer Information, HSBC Bank plc, PO Box 757, Hemel Hempstead, Herts HP2 4SS.
Or call us on 0800 032 4735 (textphone 18001 0800 028 0126).
Lines are open from 08:00 to 22:00 every day (except for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day).
Ready to apply for a Personal Loan? 
Existing customers 
On your mobile device? If \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/personal-loan-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Tips to successfully apply for a loan 
If you’re applying for a loan, you want to give yourself the best chance of getting approved. Here are 6 tips to help you apply for a loan. 
Build and improve your credit score 
Check your credit report for errors 
Work out what you can afford 
Make sure you meet the eligibility criteria 
Double-check your loan application 
Don’t apply for credit too many times 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
1. Build and improve your credit score 
When you apply to borrow money, lenders will look at your credit score before deciding whether to accept your application. 
Your credit score is calculated using a points system, based on what’s in your credit report. It shows lenders how reliable you are at borrowing and repaying money. 
A good score can help you get approved for a loan, while a poor score can stop you getting approved. Your credit score can also help lenders decide how much to offer you, as well as the interest rate.
There are ways you can improve your credit score and increase your chances of getting accepted for a loan. This includes joining the electoral register and making sure you pay your bills on time. Any late or missed payments can negatively impact your credit score.
2. Check your credit report for errors 
It can be a good idea to check your credit report to make sure the information included is accurate, and correct any mistakes before you apply for a loan. 
Any wrong information in your credit report can affect your loan application. 
You can check your credit report for free, as many times as you like, and it won’t affect your credit score. It’s only when lenders do a hard credit check (typically once you apply for credit) that it affects your credit score – not when you check it yourself. 
Remember – your credit report won’t tell you whether you’ll be approved, as lenders consider several factors when making a decision. If it’s a joint loan you’re interested in, both applicants may want to check their credit reports before applying. 
3. Work out what you can afford 
When lenders receive your loan application, they’ll typically do an affordability check – to see if you can afford the monthly repayments. They may review your income and outgoings, including any existing debt commitments. 
It’s important to create a budget to see how much you have left over each month – and avoid borrowing more than you can afford to repay.
4. Make sure you meet the eligibility criteria 
To apply for a loan, you’ll need to meet certain conditions, such as minimum income requirements. This can vary between loan products as well as lenders.
It’s important to check the terms and conditions to make sure you only apply for loans that are suitable for you – to avoid your loan application being rejected on these grounds.
5. Double-check your loan application 
A small mistake can impact the outcome of your application. For example, if you live in a flat, your address may need to be written as Flat A, 123 High Street rather than 123A High Street. Before hitting submit on any application, make sure everything's completely accurate.
6. Don’t apply for credit too many times 
Multiple applications in a short period of time can give the impression that you’re having trouble managing your money – and negatively impact your credit score. So, it’s worth doing research to make sure a particular loan is right for you before applying.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to check before applying for a loan 
5 reasons to care about your credit score 
What happens when you’re declined for lending?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/successful-loan-application-tips/
########Top of main content 
What is a loan? 
A loan allows you to borrow a sum of money, which you pay back in instalments – usually with interest – within a set timeframe. 
A loan can help you cover the cost of a large expense. The amount you’ll be able to borrow and the interest rate on offer will depend on a few things, like your credit score and how long you’ll take to repay it. 
Here, we look at:
Reasons to get a loan
What are the different types of loans?
Is a loan or credit card better?
Things to consider before taking out a loan
How to apply for a loan
What happens if you can’t repay a loan?
Can you pay off your loan early?
Reasons to get a loan 
There are lots of reasons people take out loans. For example:
buying a car 
paying for a wedding 
home improvements, like extensions or loft conversions 
other potentially large purchases, like holidays 
debt consolidation, where you merge existing debts into a single loan 
What are the different types of loans? 
When researching borrowing options, you may see products described as either secured or unsecured.
A personal loan is the most common type of unsecured loan, which you can use to cover the needs above. Unsecured loans tend to be for smaller amounts, whereas secured loans tend to be larger and require an asset for security, such as a house. For example, a mortgage is a secured loan because the lender can sell the property if you fail to meet the repayments.
Other types of loans include credit union loans, payday loans and peer-to-peer loans.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Is a loan or credit card better? 
Depending on what you need the money for and how much you want to borrow, you may want to compare loans and credit cards. 
Both work in a similar way – you borrow money and pay it back. But there are pros and cons to each, so weigh up which might be right for you.
Credit cards can be better if you need to borrow small amounts on a regular basis. They’re handy if you’re unsure how much you need to borrow, or just want to have extra funds available in case of an emergency. 
Loans tend to be more suitable for borrowing a larger amount of money, over a longer period. You may be able to get a better interest rate with a loan and you’ll have a set repayment term. 
Whether you choose a credit card or loan, you need to be able to repay the money you borrow. You may have to pay a fee if you miss a repayment and your interest owed can start to build up. This can also harm your credit score and your ability to borrow in the future. 
Explore: Ways to borrow
Things to consider before taking out a loan 
Check the interest rates available to find the best one for you 
The interest is often expressed as an Annual Percentage Rate (APR). 
When searching for a loan, you may see the ‘representative APR’. It isn’t necessarily the APR you’ll receive – it’s just an example – to help you compare the potential cost of the different loan products you may be eligible for.
The APR you’ll get is based on your circumstances – it may differ from the representative APR advertised. Always read the terms and conditions of any products you’re offered.
Make sure you can afford the repayments 
Creating a budget can help you see if you can afford the repayments. If you’re unable to make the repayments, you may want to consider other options like borrowing less or saving up instead. By delaying a purchase, you may be able to save up the full amount you need, or a good proportion of it, so you’ll need to borrow less.
Check and improve your credit score 
Before a bank or financial lender offers you a loan, they’ll most likely check your credit score. It shows them how reliable you are at borrowing and repaying money. 
It’s a good idea to check your credit report and improve your credit score before you apply for finance. Your credit score can affect the outcome of your loan application and whether it's approved. 
A better credit score can lead to more favourable interest rates and a wider range of loan products available to you.
Avoid applying for multiple loans 
Lenders will do a hard credit check, which leaves a footprint on your credit file. Numerous credit searches in a short timeframe may signal to a lender that you’re struggling to manage your money. This could impact your credit score and your eligibility for a loan.
How to apply for a loan 
Applying for a loan should be done carefully. You need to find the right loan for your circumstances and have all the correct documentation, which may include:
your personal information 
your bank details 
your employment details 
proof of address and previous addresses 
Check with the lender to see if you need to provide anything else, such as a P60 or any other official documentation. It can help the application move quicker if you’re prepared.
If you’re applying for a loan with your existing bank, the process may be much simpler as they’ll already have a lot of your information on record. You may be able to do this relatively quickly online or through an app, which is why it’s so important to think through everything before applying.
Once you’ve completed your loan application, check it thoroughly before you submit it.
Explore: What to check before applying for a loan
What happens if you can’t repay a loan? 
Keeping up to date with your repayments helps you manage your money and avoid fees. When applying for a loan, check you can afford the repayments by including them in your budget.
You may want to set up a Direct Debit so the payments are taken from your account automatically. Check your balance regularly to make sur\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/loans-explained/
########Top of main content 
What is a personal loan? 
A personal loan allows you to borrow a fixed amount of money, which you pay back in monthly instalments over a set period – usually between 3 and 10 years. 
While secured loans, like mortgages, are fixed to an asset – typically the home itself – personal loans are not, which is why they’re also known as unsecured loans.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
How do personal loan repayments work? 
There are 2 main loan types:
Fixed-rate loans 
If you choose a fixed-rate loan, the rate of interest you pay will stay the same throughout the loan. This can make it easier to budget. 
Variable-rate loans 
If you choose a variable-rate loan, the interest rate may fluctuate. So, your repayments could increase or decrease. 
Explore: How to manage your loan repayments
Can you repay a personal loan early? 
You can choose how long you’d like to take to repay the loan. In some cases, you can make overpayments or repay the loan in full before the end of the agreement without penalty. If this is something you'll want to do, check there are no early repayment charges on any loans you look at.
Can you put personal loan repayments on hold? 
If you’re experiencing financial difficulties and are worried about making your monthly repayments, let your loan provider know as soon as possible. 
At HSBC, we can offer support based on your circumstances. Please be aware that the support we offer may affect your credit score. For more information, please visit our money worries page.
What can you use a personal loan for? 
Personal loans can be useful when you want to borrow a relatively large amount and would like more time to pay it back. A credit card may be more suitable for short-term borrowing. 
Personal loans can offer the opportunity to borrow more money than would be available using a credit card, sometimes as much as £25,000. Interest rates are often lower than they would be with a credit card, although they can vary.
You might consider a personal loan to spread the cost of a big purchase like: 
buying a car 
paying for a wedding 
home improvements, like a new kitchen or bathroom 
other potentially large purchases, such as holidays 
Personal loans can also be used to consolidate existing debts into one monthly repayment. This can make it easier to manage your money, but bear in mind that extending your debt could mean you pay more interest.
How should you choose a personal loan? 
Every loan is advertised with a representative Annual Percentage Rate (APR) that you can use to compare loans. It includes the interest rate and any arrangement and other standard fees.
Remember, the representative APR advertised isn’t necessarily the interest rate you’ll get. The interest rate you get will depend on your financial circumstances, including your credit history.
When choosing a personal loan, other things may also be important to you, such as how quickly you receive the money into your account or the flexibility to make overpayments. 
Explore: What to check before you apply for a loan
Deciding how much to borrow 
When you apply for a personal loan, you’ll need to have a good understanding of all the costs you need to meet. For example, if it’s a new kitchen – you should budget for the entire project, including materials and installation costs. 
Once you’ve figured out how much you need, work out how much you can afford to pay back each month. Taking the loan out over a longer period may reduce your monthly repayments, but you may pay more in interest over the full term of the loan. 
Use our loan calculator to look at different scenarios and decide how much is right for you.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How do personal loans work? 
Secured vs unsecured loans explained 
Loan application tips\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/quick-guide-to-personal-loans/
########Top of main content 
How do personal loans work? 
When you take out a personal loan, the money is deposited into your bank account as a lump sum. It can help you buy a new car, pay for renovations to your home, and even pay off high-interest debts. 
But before taking out a personal loan, get to know how they work and the associated charges. This way, you can make sure it’s the right option for you and avoid any unexpected costs.
Key elements of a personal loan:
you can usually borrow between £1,000 to £25,000 
loan repayments are usually monthly at a fixed amount – this can help with budgeting 
you can spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years but the longer you take to pay back your loan, the more interest you'll have to pay 
you can consolidate existing debts into 1 personal loan, so you only have 1 set of repayments 
Explore: Quick guide to personal loans
5 things to consider before taking out a personal loan 
The minimum personal loan amount is usually £1,000. 
Personal loans might have higher interest rates compared to other borrowing options. 
The interest rate advertised isn’t necessarily the one you’ll receive. It’ll be based on your loan amount, loan term, and your credit history. 
Whenever you take on debt, there’s an element of risk. Will you be able to meet your repayments? If your financial situation were to change, would you still be able to meet your repayments? 
If you miss repayments or default on your loan, it may impact your credit score and your ability to borrow in the future. 
Personal loan fees 
Arrangement fee 
This is an administration fee some lenders charge for arranging your loan.
Late repayment fees 
If you miss a repayment under your loan agreement, you may be charged interest on the overdue amount plus any administration fees from the lender.
Early repayment charge 
Some lenders may charge a fee if you pay back more than your fixed monthly repayment amount.
Personal loan repayment agreements 
When you take out a personal loan, factor in the total loan costs – the amount borrowed plus interest accrued over the repayment period.
Your loan agreement will detail how much you must pay back and when. It's usually a fixed minimum amount per month.
Explore: What to check before applying for a loan
How much can you borrow? 
The amount you can borrow on a personal loan depends on your needs, income, and credit score. The better your credit score, the more likely you'll be approved for a loan and receive a lower interest rate.
Use our personal loan calculator to see what the monthly repayments could be on your loan.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Borrowing options explained 
What are some of the different types of loans? 
Loan application tips\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/personal-loans-costs-and-risks/
########Top of main content 
What is a home improvement loan? 
A ‘home improvement loan’ is essentially an unsecured personal loan that you take out to help fund home improvements, such as an extension or a new kitchen. 
Here, we look at some things to consider when you take out a personal loan for home improvements.
What is classed as home improvements? 
Home improvements include projects that upgrade your home's interior or exterior, such as:
a kitchen makeover or new bathroom 
a loft conversion 
an extension 
a new roof 
new furniture or flooring 
landscape work or a new driveway 
How do personal loans for home improvements work? 
You to borrow a fixed amount of money, which you pay back in monthly instalments, including interest, over a set period.
When you apply for a loan online, over the phone, or in a branch – you’ll be asked what you’re planning to use the money for. ‘Home improvements’ is one of the options.
At HSBC, you can borrow from £1,000 to £25,000 or up to £50,000 if you’re an HSBC Premier account holder. Repayments can be spread over:
1 to 5 years for loans of £15,000 or less 
1 to 8 years for loans over £15,000 
Your monthly repayments will be fixed, which means the rate of interest you pay will stay the same throughout the loan. This can make it easier to budget.
Keep in mind – the longer your loan term, the more interest you’ll pay overall. Our loans are also subject to status, and eligibility criteria apply.
Loan calculator 
Calculate how much your loan repayments could be. 
The difference between a personal loan and a home loan 
Unlike an unsecured personal loan, a home loan is a type of secured loan. You can borrow money against the equity in your home and use it for home improvements.
Your property acts as ‘security’ for the lender, which means they can repossess and sell the property if you can’t meet the loan repayments. For this reason, interest rates are typically lower for secured loans, and you could potentially borrow more. 
You can take a home loan in addition to your existing mortgage (if you have one). Or it can be your only form of secured borrowing.
Remember – if you have a mortgage and take out a home loan, your monthly payments may increase. If property prices fall, you could also owe more than your home is worth (known as negative equity).
Explore: Borrowing more against your property
Things to consider before taking out a personal loan for home improvements 
How much will the home improvements cost? 
From modest home improvements to extensive building work, the cost will vary depending on what you want to do. Compare quotes from reputable traders and suppliers to get the best value for money.
Consider how much you’ll need from start to finish. The price of materials can also change, as well as the time it takes – so you may need a contingency fund if the cost goes up during the project.
Can you afford the loan repayments? 
With any form of borrowing, you need to be able to pay it back, including any interest. 
Creating a budget will give you an idea of how much you can afford to pay each month. Look at your income for the last three months and compare it to your spending over the same time. 
If you find the cost of the loan is more than you can comfortably pay, you may want to rethink your plans. Perhaps you could renovate in stages or wait until you can save more.
Do you have savings available? 
If you can, use savings to help fund your home improvements. That way, you can reduce the amount you have to borrow and how much interest you’ll pay. 
It’s important to keep enough savings to cover unexpected costs, though.
Will the home improvements add value? 
Some improvements will increase your home’s potential and add value to your property, but not all will. For example, a loft conversion could add value by giving you extra living space, whereas some DIY projects may not.
You should plan carefully and try to fund home improvements in the most affordable way. You want to make sure any expensive work done adds lasting value.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your property may be repossessed if you don’t keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Home Improvement Loan 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
The pros and cons of home renovations 
How to make your home more energy efficient 
Loan application tips\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/home-improvement-loans-explained/
########Top of main content 
How to finance a car 
From saving up to taking out a personal loan or leasing – there are many ways to finance a car. 
The best option for you will depend on your financial situation, whether you want to own the vehicle and the type of car you’re interested in.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Car finance options 
Buying a car with savings 
If you can pay the whole price upfront – you’ll own the car outright. You won’t have to worry about monthly repayments and can sell the car anytime. Cars can be expensive, so you might find your choice is limited, depending on what you can afford. 
The more you can save before you buy the car, the better off you’ll be. Even if you don’t have the full amount, saving some of it will reduce the amount you have to borrow, including interest.
Buying a car using a personal loan 
A personal car loan enables you to buy a car and then make repayments over a set period. You’ll own the car from the start and once you’re finished making repayments, there’s nothing else you need to do. You can also sell the car if needed. 
The interest rate will depend on the loan provider, your credit history, and the type of loan you choose.
Use our car finance calculator to estimate your repayments (based on the amount you want to borrow and how long you’d like to borrow for). 
Loans are subject to status and eligibility criteria apply.
Hire purchase (HP) 
A hire purchase is a way of buying a car (typically a brand new vehicle) on finance, where the loan is secured against the car. You pay a deposit and then pay off the balance and interest throughout the loan period.
Once you’re finished making your loan repayments, you own the car. Until then, the car belongs to the finance company. They can choose to repossess it if you miss any payments.
Please note – HSBC doesn’t offer HP finance.
Personal contract purchase (PCP) 
With PCP, you pay a deposit followed by monthly payments for a fixed period. You don’t take out a loan for the full cost of the car – like you do with a hire purchase. Instead, you get a loan for the difference between its price brand new and the predicted value at the end of the loan agreement. 
After this, you have a few options:
give the car back 
pay the outstanding balance to keep the car 
start another personal contract purchase with a different car 
Make sure you read the terms and conditions carefully. Some car dealers may charge for damage, excessive wear and tear, or if you exceed the mileage limit – affecting the amount you end up spending.
Please note – HSBC doesn’t offer PCP finance.
Personal car leasing or personal contract hire (PCH) 
Personal car leasing is similar to renting a car, as you don't get to keep it at the end of the contract. You'll usually have to pay some rental costs in advance and then regular monthly payments. These may be higher, but you may get non-fuel running costs such as road tax or servicing included.
Please note – HSBC doesn’t offer personal car leasing.
Things to consider 
As with any loan, you must be able to afford the monthly payments before you enter into the agreement.
Also consider ongoing costs such as:
insurance 
servicing 
maintenance 
fuel 
These can make a big difference to your budget and may impact how much you want to borrow and how you would like to borrow it.
If you’re interested in a personal loan, take a look at the different types of loans available to understand your options.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What's next? 
HSBC Car Loan 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Buying a used car 
Loan application tips 
A quick guide to electric vehicles\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/financing-a-car/
########Top of main content 
The pros and cons of home renovations 
Renovating can be a good alternative to moving and potentially add value to your home. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
There are plenty of reasons to renovate – you may be outgrowing your current living space, for example, or thinking about a garden office if you’re working from home.
Or you might be interested in making your home more energy efficient, which could save you money in the long run.
Common renovations 
Renovating can be a project involving your entire home or other extensive building work, which might need planning permission, such as:
adding an extension 
converting a loft, basement, or garage 
knocking through a wall to make a bigger room 
It could also mean more modest home improvements such as:
installing new heating 
a new kitchen or bathroom 
a garden makeover 
fitting solar panels 
Before getting started, consider the pros and cons of renovating to help you can weigh up whether it’ll be worthwhile.
Pros of renovating 
If you need something like another bedroom or an improved kitchen, renovating means you can make the change without needing to move.
This is good news if you love your home and the location. It also means you’ll avoid things like Stamp Duty (which you might have to pay if you buy a property), and conveyancing costs.
You may also add value to your property, which can increase the price if you ever sell. While you don’t want to count on this, it can make the cost of the renovation a little bit easier to bear.
Garden offices may also be a good way of adding value to your home. They can increase your square footage without extending your home. It doesn’t have to be just an office either – it could be used as a playroom, a gym, or even a home cinema.
You'll need to check if you need planning permission or building regulation approval for a garden office, plus garden insurance.
Cons of renovating 
It’s easy to underestimate how much time and money you need to renovate. Do as much research as possible and get to know the tradespeople who are doing the work. If you ask for recommendations from friends, family, and neighbours, you can be confident they have a good track record.
Depending on the scale of the renovation, the work might be disruptive while it's taking place, as well as costly. If you decide to borrow money for home improvements, make sure you can afford the repayments for the duration of the loan. 
Explore: How to manage your loan repayments 
How to pay for home improvements 
While renovating your home may be cheaper than buying a new one, it can still be expensive.
If you decide to go ahead with a renovation, you may be able to pay for it by:
taking out a home improvement loan 
refinancing your mortgage 
using some of the equity in your home 
If you choose to borrow, try to save as much as possible. That way, you can reduce the amount you pay in interest.
You can use our home improvement loan calculator to estimate the monthly repayments and how much you can afford to borrow.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Home Improvement Loan 
Share 
Explore more 
Getting a loft conversion loan 
What is a secured and unsecured loan? 
Tips for a successful loan application\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/potential-value-of-home-renovation/
########Top of main content 
What is critical illness insurance? 
Critical illness insurance can help you rest easy, knowing that you'll be covered in the event of a serious diagnosis. 
Critical illness insurance pays you a lump sum if you suffer a stroke or heart attack, or if you’re diagnosed with a specified illness. You could use the proceeds of a successful claim to help you continue to manage your finances, including paying off your mortgage, for example.
Having a critical illness policy won’t stop you getting ill, but it can help you and your family cope financially at a very difficult time. 
But before taking out a new policy, you need to make sure you need it.
Is critical illness insurance right for you? 
Critical illness insurance could be particularly important if you have family who rely on you financially.
It’s designed to be a living benefit to get you back on your feet again. Because a diagnosis doesn’t just affect your health, it can come with a hefty price tag, too.
It’s not just time off work, other potential costs may include childcare during treatment, adaptations to your home, heating bills while you recover and numerous hospital trips.
What illnesses are covered by critical illness insurance? 
Critical illness insurance covers a range of conditions, such as:
terminal illness 
cancer, excluding less advanced cases 
heart attack 
multiple sclerosis (MS) 
stroke 
dementia or Alzheimers 
Check if you already have critical illness cover 
You need to feel confident that you wouldn't be paying for something you didn't need. Here are some things to consider:
If employed, you may already have an employee benefit that would cover you if you were unable to work because of a serious illness or disability. 
You may have a form of critical illness insurance as part of an existing policy, such as life insurance. 
Sometimes your mortgage insurance also covers you for critical illness. 
In some cases, you may feel you have enough savings to cover any loss of earnings instead of insurance. 
If none of these applies to you, then critical illness insurance could be worth looking into.
What affects the cost of critical illness insurance? 
Certain factors can affect the cost of a critical illness policy, including: 
your age when you take out the policy – the younger you are, the cheaper your quote will be, as the risk of getting ill increases with age 
your health – if you’re in good health, this can reduce the cost 
your lifestyle – heavy smokers, for example, may pay more than non-smokers 
your occupation – insurers may consider some jobs to be higher risk than others, which can increase the cost 
the amount of cover you need and how long you need the cover for 
How much critical illness insurance do you need? 
The amount of critical illness insurance you take out is a personal choice and depends on your situation. 
You may want to start by working out how much you’d need to cover your monthly outgoings if you were unable to work for a period of time. 
Your outgoings may include:
your rent or mortgage 
other debt payments 
childcare 
food and household bills 
possible medical expenses 
Once you’ve added it all up, it’s worth considering any savings, investments or other forms of income you could potentially use – to give you a rough estimate of how much you’ll need. 
If you’re unsure about how much critical illness cover you need, you can talk to one of our protection advisers. They’ll spend time getting to know your situation then recommend a competitive policy that's right for you from our hand-picked list of providers.
Check what exclusions there are 
Not every type of illness is covered by critical illness insurance policies, so it’s important to check the small print to find out what is and isn’t included before you sign up.
Some types of cancer are also likely to be excluded, at least in their early stages. Certain illnesses, which you or your family have had before, may not be covered either.
You must be honest about the medical history of you and your family. If you miss out any important details, your insurer might refuse to pay out if you try to make a claim.
What critical illness cover do we offer? 
You can take out Critical Illness Cover as an add-on when you apply online for HSBC Life Cover, or as a standalone policy through one of our advisers. 
To apply online, you'll need to be registered for online banking. You also need to be a UK resident aged 17 and over, and under 70, at the time the policy starts.
If you'd like to buy a standalone critical illness policy without life cover, our protection advice service is available to help you find the policy that’s right for you. Our protection advice service is available at no extra cost to HSBC customers who are UK residents aged 18 and over.
As with all insurance policies, terms and conditions, exclusions, and limitations apply. Please refer to your policy for more details.
HSBC Life Cover and Critical Illness Cover is provided by HSBC Life (UK) Limited.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Critical Illness Cover 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What are the different types of insurance? 
Do you need life insurance? 
What to consider when buying insurance\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/what-is-critical-illness-insurance/
########Top of main content 
What insurance do you need with your mortgage? 
It’s not a legal requirement, but most mortgage lenders insist that you to have buildings insurance in place when you exchange contracts. This is when you legally own the property and are responsible for the building. 
Having insurance can give you a safety net – and peace of mind – if things go wrong. 
Here, we look at the types of insurance you may want to consider when taking out a mortgage, including:
buildings insurance 
contents insurance 
life insurance 
critical illness cover 
income protection insurance 
Do you need buildings insurance with your mortgage? 
Buildings insurance is especially important when you have a home to protect and a mortgage to pay. It’s often required, as a condition of the mortgage. 
It protects you against the cost of repairing or rebuilding your home from scratch – if it ever got damaged from a fire, for example. It’s important to consider getting the cover you need.
Buildings insurance typically covers: 
the structure of the building 
permanent fixtures and fittings, such as kitchens and baths 
outside buildings, such as garages and garden sheds 
If you’re buying a leasehold house or flat, the property will still need buildings insurance, but you may not need to arrange this yourself. The responsibility usually lies with the landlord who owns the freehold. But this isn’t always the case, so it’s important to ask your solicitor who is responsible for insuring the building.
Do you need contents insurance with your mortgage? 
It’s not essential but as moving day approaches, you may want to consider contents insurance – to protect your belongings too. You shouldn’t underestimate how much your items are worth – from your TV to your washing machine.
If you ever needed to replace them, you’d need enough contents insurance to cover your losses. It may be cheaper to buy buildings and contents insurance together – but you can also buy them separately. We offer both buildings and contents cover.
Find out about how you could save money on your home insurance.
Do you need life insurance for a mortgage? 
You don’t need life insurance to get a mortgage but if you have loved ones who depend on you financially, you may want to consider it.
Life insurance can offer the comfort of knowing they can be taken care of if you die. It may mean your family won't be left with the responsibility of paying off your mortgage or risk having to sell up and move. 
The amount of life cover you’ll need will depend on the size of your mortgage and the type of mortgage you have. You may also want to factor in any other debts you may have, as well as money needed to care for dependants, such as a partner, children, or elderly relatives. 
Do you need critical illness cover for a mortgage? 
You don't have to buy a critical illness policy when you take out a mortgage, but it’s also important to consider how you might pay your mortgage if you couldn’t work because of illness. 
Critical illness cover can help support you and your family if you unexpectedly fall ill. Insurance policies vary so it’s worth checking what illnesses are covered. 
Critical illness cover often includes things like: 
cancer 
heart attacks 
strokes 
Critical illness cover is usually offered as a lump sum payment on diagnosis of a specified illness. 
Having that money available can offer some reassurance during a difficult time. It can be used to clear your mortgage, pay towards rehabilitation costs, or help you get back on your feet. 
If you’re looking to take critical illness cover for a repayment mortgage, you should speak to an adviser as we do not offer decreasing cover online.
Do you need income protection insurance for a mortgage? 
This type of insurance offers financial support if you can't work because of an accident or injury. You don’t need it to get a mortgage, but it can give you a safety net in case something was to happen. 
Income protection pays a monthly tax-free benefit to help cover your loss of earnings. It allows you to keep on top on your mortgage repayments, for example. That way you can focus on your recovery without having to worry about money. 
If you’re employed, you may be entitled to Statutory Sick Pay if you’re too ill to work. Your employer pays this for up to 28 weeks. Some employers offer additional income protection as a benefit, but not all do. It could also be limited so it’s worth checking what your benefits include. If you’re self-employed or a freelancer, income protection may be even more important.
Keep in mind 
All insurance policies are different – it’s important to regularly check what is and isn’t included, so you’re covered for the things you need. 
Some lenders allow you to add extra cover to suit your needs. For example, we offer you a choice of different levels of protection for your home and contents. 
Support is available. It can be tricky to know how much insurance cover you need. Our life insurance calculatorlife insurance calculator This link will open in a new window can help you get started. 
Did you find this article useful? 
Yes 
No 
Please tell us your reason
Too complicated 
Too long 
Not what I was expecting 
Not enough information 
Poor layout 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Home Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Should you get single or joint life insurance? 
How much life insurance do you need? 
10 steps to buying your own home\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/what-insurance-do-you-need-with-your-mortgage/
########Top of main content 
Do you need life insurance? 
Life insurance isn’t a legal requirement, but it can offer some comfort that your loved ones will be taken care of, financially, if you pass away. 
New research on behalf of HSBC reveals two in five people in the UK have life insurance (43%), with another one in five (20%) saying they have critical illness protection.
Half of Brits (50%) who decide against getting life insurance blame rising living costs and the need to tighten their budget. However, despite those financial concerns, one in five people in the UK without life insurance (20%) agree it’s a good way to make sure they’re looking after their families.
Brits with a policy said the main reasons they were prompted to get life insurance were:
buying a home (19%) 
having a child (14%) 
planning for funeral costs (10%) 
retirement planning (9%) 
Here, we look at when you may, and may not, need life cover to help you decide if it’s right for you.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Reasons why you may need to get life insurance 
It’s worth considering life insurance if you have people who depend on you financially, such as:
a partner who relies on your income or your contribution to the household 
children or young dependents 
other dependents who rely on you as a caregiver 
Having life insurance means that your family will receive money after you’re gone. This money can help take care of them at a difficult time. The money could be used to: 
cover new costs, such as childcare 
replace your income so your family can continue to pay the household bills 
pay off big debts like a mortgage 
Every family’s circumstances are different. It’s important to think about how yours would change if you were no longer around, as hard as that may be.
When you may not need life insurance 
You may not need life insurance if:
you’re single and have no dependents 
your partner earns enough money for the family to live on and can afford to pay for any new costs they may face, such as childcare 
you already have enough cover in place 
If you’re not the main earner of your household, you may think you don’t need life insurance. But don’t overlook your contribution. 
For example, if you’re a stay-at-home parent – would your partner need to pay for childcare so they could continue to go to work? According to the MoneyHelper, the average cost of sending a child under 2 to nursery in the UK is:
£138 per week – part-time (25 hours) 
£264 per week – full-time (50 hours) 
Do you already have life insurance? 
You may already have some life insurance through your employer. If so, check what’s included to see if you need extra cover. 
Think about how much cover it gives and for how long. Does the term match how long you will need it for? You also need to consider what would happen if you changed jobs, as you’ll no longer be covered through your employer.
Talk to loved ones 
Talking to loved ones about financial arrangements after you pass away is a difficult subject.
It’s not something we like to think about, but it’s really important to be open and practical so you all know what the long-term plan is. 
Start having conversations about how your family will manage financially if you, or your partner, passed away. It can help you understand if you should get life insurance – and how much cover is required. 
If you’re unsure about what’s right for you, our protection advisers can help you decide.
Other things to think about 
The more practical discussions you can have with your family now, the better – it can make a difficult time just that little bit easier. 
So, while you’re on the subject, you may want to make sure your family knows:
where they can find a copy of your will 
contact details for executors and the solicitor 
details of any financial plans, policies and covers 
how to get hold of other important paperwork, such as property deeds, bank statements and pension statements 
if there are any joint debts that may need to be settled, such as credit cards or loans 
It’s not easy to think about life insurance and what will happen after you’re gone. It’s a selfless act to think of others without any benefit to yourself. But it can make a world of difference to your loved ones and give them one less thing to worry about. 
All figures, unless otherwise stated, are from Sticky and Censuswide for HSBC. Total sample size was 2,008 adults. Fieldwork was undertaken between 2 to 8 December 2022. The survey was carried out online. The figures have been weighted and are representative of all UK adults (aged 18+).
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Life Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How much life insurance do you need? 
Should you get single or joint life insurance? 
What insurance do you need with your mortgage?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/do-you-need-life-insurance/
########Top of main content 
What to consider when buying insurance 
Make sure you're not paying for insurance you don't need. Answering these 6 questions can help you choose a policy that’s right for you. 
1. What do I want my insurance to cover?
2. Am I OK with what’s not covered?
3. Am I paying for things I don’t need?
4. Can I afford to increase my insurance excess?
5. Am I being tempted by the lowest quote?
6. Have I been accurate?
What do I want my insurance to cover? 
Are you worried about breaking your mobile phone? Getting ill while on holiday? Being burgled? Think about what’s important to you and the sort of events you’d like to be protected from. This will help you work out what features to look for.
Also consider who you want your policy to cover. Is it just for you? You and your partner? Or your family too? Sometimes, it can be cheaper to insure the whole household, than to take out separate policies.
Am I OK with what’s not covered? 
Arguably, even more important than what’s covered is what’s not covered. This can be where people get caught out.
Read the exclusions carefully. Are you happy being uninsured for things that are listed? For example, many mobile phone policies don’t cover water damage. So, if you’re prone to dropping your phone down the loo, you may want to find a different level of cover – or a different policy altogether.
You need to make sure you’re comfortable with the exclusions before buying a policy. Otherwise, you could find yourself trying to claim for something that’s not covered. 
Am I paying for things I don’t need? 
Check the policy features carefully to see if there are any you don’t actually need. A courtesy car could be useful if you only have 1 car. But if you’ve 2 cars or more, would you use it?
Annual family travel insurance could save you money over single-trip insurance – but only if your family has plans to make several trips over the course of the year.
Another thing to consider is whether you have any existing cover. For example, does your mobile contract include mobile phone insurance? Or do you already have an annual travel insurance policy? If you have a ‘packaged’ bank account, the answer to that might be yes.
If you’re duplicating cover, you could be wasting money.
Can I afford to increase my insurance excess? 
The insurance ‘excess’ is the amount you’ll have to pay towards any claim you make.
For car insurance, the total excess is likely to be made up of a compulsory and voluntary excess. You have no control over the compulsory excess – the insurance provider will decide that. However, you can choose how much voluntary excess you’re willing to pay.
For home insurance, you can usually increase or decrease the excess to the level that suits you, within a given range. 
Why would you want to increase your excess? Because it usually means you’d pay cheaper premiums. As your contribution towards a claim will be higher, the insurer offers you a lower price for the policy.
Is it worth it? That depends on your situation. If you have savings you could dip into if you needed to claim, then it may be worth increasing your excess. However, if you can't afford the extra excess, you'll be put off making a claim, which defeats the object of being insured in the first place.
Am I being tempted by the lowest quote? 
Cheap insurance might not offer the best value for money as it may not give you the cover you need. Paying a little more often means your cover will be more comprehensive. For example, it might provide:
higher policy limits 
higher total claim limits 
lower compulsory excess 
fewer exclusions 
As before, the important thing is to always read and understand the detail before taking out a policy. That way you're comfortable with what’s covered and what’s not.
Another thing to think about is the claims service. This isn’t something people tend to think about when buying insurance. However, if something goes wrong, it will be at the front of your mind.
Before taking out a policy, it’s worth doing some research on the insurer’s claims service.
Have I been accurate? 
Under-estimating the value of your things or the number of rooms in your house may make your policy a little cheaper. But it’s an unnecessary risk, which could lead to your claim being reduced or even rejected.
And if this happens, it could make it hard for you to get insurance in the future and your quotes may be more expensive. This is why you should always answer the questions honestly and to the best of your knowledge.
Not sure about a certain aspect? You can always give the insurer a call to make sure you understand what’s covered and what’s not.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to compare home insurance policies 
What are the different types of insurance? 
Should you get travel insurance?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/what-to-consider-when-buying-insurance/
########Top of main content 
How to make an insurance claim 
If you’ve never made a claim before, here’s how to do it – and make it go as smoothly as possible. 
Insurance is something you buy in the hope that you’ll never use it. But when something goes wrong that you’re covered for, you’re very glad it’s there for you.
This article covers general insurance claims. If you need to make a claim for health insurance, life insurance, critical illness or income protection, contact your insurer to find out exactly what you need to do.
Your insurance claim checklist 
Has a crime been committed?
Is it an emergency?
Record what’s happened
Check your policy documents
Contact your insurer
Be clear (and honest)
Keep notes throughout the process
Has a crime been committed? 
If you’ve had something stolen or vandalised, the first thing you should do is call the police. They'll give you a crime reference number for you to pass on to your insurer.
Your policy may have a time limit to report a crime. Others ask you to do it as soon as reasonably possible. The sooner you report it, the better.
Is it an emergency? 
If you’ve been taken ill while outside the UK or if there’s an emergency in your home, call your insurer for on-the-spot advice.
Most operate 24-hour claims lines and will tell you what you need to do next. If you don’t have their number to hand, you’ll be able to find it on their website.
If you have an HSBC policy, you can find the claims numbers below:
make a travel insurance claim 
make an Insurance Aspects claim 
make a home insurance claim 
Record what’s happened 
The more evidence you have, the more straightforward your claim should be. Make notes of dates and times and the details of what happened. Take photos or videos of any damage. Make lists of any stolen items. Ask for and keep hold of the details of anyone else involved.
Check your policy documents 
If it’s not an emergency, you may want to review your policy documents before calling your insurer. That way, you can check if there’s an excess to pay and if there’s a certain procedure you need to follow.
For example, some car and home insurance policies specify that approved companies need to do the repairs. Some insurers may even arrange the repairs for you.
If you can’t find your policy documents, don’t worry. Your insurer should be able to identify you from your address and tell you if you have a valid claim. 
Contact your insurer 
Contact your insurer as soon as possible – even if you don’t yet know the full extent of the damage or loss. Your policy might have a time limit for making claims. Even if it hasn’t, it’s best to make your claim while the information is fresh in your mind.
With some policies, for example with our Home Insurance, you can make your claim online. If you’re claiming by phone, make sure you’ve got all the details to hand before you call, including:
what happened 
when it happened 
details of any companies or people involved 
Be clear (and honest) 
For most types of claims, your insurer will take the details over the phone or online – although some may ask you to fill in a form.
When it comes to making your insurance claim, be clear about what happened and what you'd like replacing or how much money you’re claiming for.
In many cases, the insurer will take you at your word. However, you may be asked for proof of the loss or damage, or evidence that you own the items you’re claiming for.
Examples of documents needed for an insurance claim 
photos of items and any damage 
receipts, online invoices or valuations for expensive items 
product make, model and serial numbers 
booking confirmations and flight numbers 
police reports 
medical certificates 
Don't overstate the value of the loss or damage as this could lead to your claim being rejected.
Keep notes throughout the process 
Any time you have a phone call with your insurer, or anyone else related to the claim, make notes about what they say and record the time and date. Keep copies of all emails and letters you’ve received and sent. This can help you recall events later on.
Straightforward claims can be resolved and paid out within days. Complex claims may take longer. Once you’ve reported all the relevant information to your insurer, they should be able to tell you how long it will take.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is insurance excess? 
What to consider when buying insurance 
What are the different types of insurance?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/making-an-insurance-claim/
########Top of main content 
Should you cancel your insurance to save money? 
With higher living costs, it's tempting to think about cancelling your insurance policies to save money. 
But before you decide, here are a few things to consider.
Is cancelling your insurance the right thing to do? 
Inflation (the rate at which the prices of goods and services increase) is having a big impact on household budgets. We're all searching for ways to cut our everyday costs as the price of energy, food, and fuel remain high. 
Cancelling insurance could save you money in the short term – but it might end up costing you more.
If something happened, the financial shock might be far greater than the cost of the premiums you're paying. For example, if your phone got stolen, could you afford to replace it like for like?
If you can afford to carry on paying your premiums, you’ll have more financial resilience to deal with whatever might come your way.
Should you cancel your home insurance? 
If you're a home owner, you probably have buildings insurance as it's often a condition of your mortgage. If so, this isn't something you could cancel to save money. 
But you might also have contents insurance to cover your belongings in case they’re damaged, stolen, or lost. 
Before you cancel any home insurance policies, ask yourself whether you'd be able to recover financially if your home was burgled or hit by fire or flood. 
If your home became so badly damaged that you couldn't live there, is your home insurance likely to pay for somewhere else until you could move back in?
If you can afford to, it makes sense to keep your insurance cover to give you peace of mind.
But it's worth taking the time to make sure you have the right level of cover. For example, accidental damage cover is usually an optional extra, so you could remove it if you don’t think it offers value for money.
Are you paying extra to cover certain times, such as your bike? Most policies cover bikes as standard within the home. So, if you’re working from home more these days, you might not need extra cover.
Tip: did you know if you increase your excess, it brings down your premium? Just remember that if you do make a claim, the excess is the amount you'll have to pay yourself.
Should you cancel your life insurance? 
It's never easy to think about what might happen to your family if the main earner were to die or suffer a serious illness or injury. But it's something to consider before cancelling any life insurance policies.
Ask yourself if there's a possibility you might lose your home if you had no cover?
Bear in mind – if you cancel a policy now but plan to take out single or joint life cover again later, it’s likely to be more expensive because you’ll be older. You might even find it hard to get life insurance again if you're in worse health than when you originally took out a policy.
Remember too that most protection policies have guaranteed premiums. This means they won’t increase throughout the term of the policy – so you’ll never pay more than the price you’re paying now.
Do you have insurance with us? 
If your budget is tight and you’re considering cancelling your policy, give your product provider a call. They may be able to make your policy more affordable, while still providing you with a level of protection. 
Home insurance policies
Call Aviva on 0345 300 5898.
Lines are open 08:00 to 20:00 Monday to Friday, 08:00 to 16:00 on Saturdays and 10:00 to 16:00 on Sundays (excluding public holidays). 
Life insurance policies
If you bought a Life policy through one of our protection advisers (not HSBC Life), get in touch with them directly. 
If you have a question about an HSBC Life policy, please call:
0345 745 6125
Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday (excluding public holidays). Calls may be monitored or recorded.
Other ways to cut your spending 
The rising cost of living is putting huge pressure on household budgets, but there are ways to reduce your spending that could help you to make ends meet. 
If you're not sure whether cancelling insurance is right for you, there might be other areas where you could cut back. For example, we have everyday spending hacks to help you save money. 
If you’re worried about household bills and paying your mortgage, you also have options to help reduce your monthly mortgage payments.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to save money on your home insurance 
How much life insurance do you need? 
Do you need mobile phone insurance?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/should-you-cancel-your-insurance-to-save-money/
########Top of main content 
COVID-19 frequently asked questions 
We’ve put together some frequently asked questions about the impact of COVID-19.
The guidance covers all of our travel policies: HSBC Premier, HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits), HSBC Private Banking Account, HSBC Private Banking MasterCard, HSBC Select and Cover, HSBC Insurance Aspects, HSBC Gold MasterCard and HSBC Platinum Credit Card.
Effective March 2023.
Latest update 
The rules for travel can change unexpectedly in relation to COVID-19 restrictions, both in the UK and abroad. Before booking any trip, it's important to make sure you fully understand the financial risks, and book with flexible options wherever possible.
Travel insurance protects you against unforeseen and unexpected events, but not all situations are covered. Please make sure you understand the terms and conditions of your booking and your travel insurance policy.
Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advice 
Under the terms of the policy it is essential you check Foreign travel adviceForeign travel advice This link will open in a new window for your destination before you book a trip or purchase your travel insurance (whichever is later).
FCDO travel advice provides COVID-19 guidance and tells you about the risks of travelling abroad. Their advice is constantly being reviewed, and they may advise against non-essential travel to some countries and territories. It can also advise you on the different entry requirements for certain countries – for example, you might need a negative COVID-19 test or proof of vaccination to enter.
Telling us if you’ve had COVID-19 
It’s important that you check the 'Your health' section of your policy documents:
every time you're about to book a trip
again before you travel
You must make sure you've told us everything we need to know about the health of each insured person.
Before booking a trip 
Before booking your trip you'll need to tell us if you or any insured person on the policy has been diagnosed with an illness, injury or disease within the last 12 months.
If you or anyone covered by your policy has previously tested positive for COVID-19, then you’ll need to tell us about this if you have:
been prescribed medication by your doctor for COVID-19
visited hospital or A&E for COVID-19, or
been referred for investigations or treatment for COVID-19
If this applies to you or anyone covered by your policy, you’ll need to tell us and we’ll ask you some medical screening questions to confirm if we can cover the condition. You should check the 'Your health' section of your policy documents.
HSBC Select and Cover: 
You won't be covered for any COVID-19 related conditions if:
you were admitted or had treatment in a hospital or out-patient clinic as a result of having COVID-19 in the 3 months prior to booking your trip, or
you're awaiting treatment or the results of investigations regarding COVID-19
You should check the 'Your Health' section of your policy booklet to find out what cover you have for other existing medical conditions before you book a trip.
Frequently asked questions 
Here you’ll find answers to your specific questions around COVID-19. Please read through all the questions so you’re clear what exclusions and restrictions apply, as more than one scenario may be relevant to you.
If I test positive for COVID-19, am I covered to cancel my trip? 
Yes, if you're forced to cancel your trip as a direct result of a positive COVID-19 test, you’re covered for cancellation. You'll need to provide confirmation and evidence of a positive test result.
If I get COVID-19 while on holiday, am I covered for medical treatment? 
Yes, you're covered for emergency medical treatment and associated expenses, if you become ill with COVID-19. Subject to policy terms and conditions.
HSBC Select and Cover:
As long as you didn't travel against FCDO or other government advice, and follow local advice, you're covered for emergency medical treatment abroad. Subject to any medical exclusions.
You should check the Your Health section of your policy booklet to find out what cover you have for existing medical conditions before you book. If you were admitted or had treatment in a hospital or out-patient clinic as a result of having COVID-19 in the 3 months before booking your trip, or are awaiting treatment or results of investigations, you won't be covered.
If I’m unexpectedly quarantined abroad or onboard a cruise ship because of a positive COVID-19 test result, am I covered? 
Yes. If you unexpectedly need to quarantine, we'll cover:
Accommodation costs (of similar standard to the accommodation which had been booked for the trip), if you need to stay beyond your planned return date, or you can stay where you planned because your pre-booked accommodation doesn't meet legal requirements (for example you can't reach your destination because you need to quarantine locally)
Additional travel costs if your return ticket can't be used
We'll also pay cost for any excursions you haven't been able to use, where the costs can't be recovered elsewhere.
Its important to check the entry requirements for your destination before you book, as you wont be covered if you don't meet these.
Am I covered to travel to a country if FCDO advice against travel is in place? 
No. HSBC Travel Insurance won't cover you, if you decide to travel against FCDO advice. You're not covered for travel that goes against the advice of the FCDO or where the local authorities advise against going to the area you want to travel to.
If a foreign government closes its borders to travellers from the UK, or brings in restrictions such as a lockdown or quarantine requirements, can I cancel my trip? 
Your travel provider should be able to help with this, so first get in touch with whoever you booked your trip with to talk about your options.
If you can’t reschedule your trip or get a refund, you’ll be able to make a claim for non-recoverable travel and accommodation costs, if the rest\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/coronavirus/travel-guidance/
########Top of main content 
What are the different types of insurance? 
Insurance protects you and your belongings from the financial cost of something going wrong. 
It can’t stop bad things from happening. But if something unexpected does happen – such as a burglary, a car accident, or an illness while you’re on holiday – it means you won’t have to pay the full financial cost on your own.
Insurance is all about managing risk. There are some instances where insurance is compulsory. For others, it will depend on your circumstances, and how much risk you’re prepared to take.
Here’s an introduction to the most common types of insurance to help you work out which ones you might need.
Bear in mind that some bank accounts offer insurance, for example travel, breakdown or mobile phone cover, as part of their package of benefits. So before taking out a new policy, it’s worth checking to make sure you’re not already covered elsewhere.
Types of insurance 
Home insurance
Car insurance
Life insurance
Travel insurance
Health insurance
Pet insurance
Home insurance 
If you own a home, you’ll likely need to have buildings insurance as a condition of your mortgage. This won’t cover you for general wear and tear. But it will cover the cost of repairing or rebuilding your home if it’s damaged by storm, floods, fire, lightning or subsidence.
Both homeowners and tenants can take out contents insurance. Though not a legal requirement, it covers your possessions in case they’re damaged, stolen or lost. For example, if there was a fire, flood or burglary at your home, it would cover the cost of replacing your belongings. 
If you take out buildings and contents insurance, many insurers offer discounts if you combine your policies, so this could help you get a cheaper deal. 
Explore: HSBC Home Insurance
Car insurance 
When you drive, you’re legally required to have motor insurance.
Third-party cover applies to any damage to another person’s car or property. But it won’t cover damage to your car. If you rarely use your car, or you don’t think it’s worth much, then you may decide this is enough.
A third-party fire and theft policy not only covers other people, but also includes cover for your own car, in the event it is stolen or damaged by fire.
Fully comprehensive cover is the highest level of insurance you can have. It includes all the cover of a third-party fire and theft policy, but also protects you as a driver, and may pay out for damage to your own car.
You might be interested in this useful guide by MoneyHelper to choosing the right level of car insurance choosing the right level of car insurance This link will open in a new window.
HSBC doesn’t offer car insurance right now but M&S Bank M&S Bank This link will open in a new window, a member of the HSBC Group, does. Terms and conditions apply. 
M&S Car Insurance is arranged and administered by BISL Limited using a panel of insurers.
Life insurance 
Life insurance is protection for you and your family. If the main breadwinner of your family were to get seriously ill or die, this would have a huge financial impact. Life insurance can help give your family peace of mind that if something terrible does occur, they’ll be provided for.
There are 3 main types of life insurance policies:
life cover – this will provide a lump sum to your dependants if you die 
critical illness – this can provide you with a lump sum payment if you can't work for medical reasons, such as a heart attack, cancer or a stroke 
income protection – this will provide a regular payment if you can't work while you’re ill or disabled 
If you don’t have any dependants, you may decide you don't need life insurance. However, if you have a partner or family who depend on your income, to cover a mortgage, for example, it’s worth looking into.
Another factor to consider is price. If you’re young and healthy, life insurance offers good value for money – giving you high cover at a relatively low cost. If you take it out later in life, it may cost you more.
Explore: HSBC Life Insurance
Travel insurance 
When planning a holiday, the last thing you want to think about is something going wrong. Having travel insurance can protect you if it does.
Travel insurance can cover you for a wide range of events, so it’s worth considering when you book your next trip. And there’s a benefit to buying as soon as you book because it can cover you for cancellation or illness before you’re due to travel.
If you travel twice or more in a year, an annual policy can often be cheaper. Whether you buy single trip or multi-trip travel insurance, it could potentially stop an unlucky event becoming very costly.
Since the start of the pandemic, most policies won’t cover cancellations caused by coronavirus. Some won’t even cover your medical costs if you get the virus while outside the UK, so be sure to check the exclusions carefully before buying.
We don’t offer travel insurance at HSBC but M&S Bank M&S Bank This link will open in a new window does. Terms and conditions apply.
M&S Travel Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Annual multi-trip age limit of under 80, with no age limit for single trip policies. M&S Travel Insurance is not available to customers who live in the Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
Health insurance 
Most people in the UK are covered by the National Health Service (NHS). But if you’d prefer private treatment or don’t want to wait to be treated through the NHS, you can choose to get private health insurance – also known as private medical insurance.
Before taking out a private health policy, it’s important to look into exactly what you will and won’t be covered for. You should also check the exclusions to make sure you’ve got the cover you need. For example, some health insurance may not cover people with pre-existing medical conditions.
Some employers offer health insurance as part of their benefits package. 
HSBC doesn’t offer health insurance for customers but here's a useful guide by MoneyHelper on\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/types-of-insurance/
########Top of main content 
How to save money on your home insurance 
From paying annually to increasing your excess, there are a few things you can do to reduce the cost of home insurance. 
Here are 6 ways you could get a cheaper home insurance quote:
Compare home insurance policies 
Combine buildings and contents cover 
Pay for your insurance annually 
Increase your insurance excess 
Build an emergency fund 
Maintain and protect your home 
1. Compare home insurance policies 
Every policy is different so it can help to shop around to find the best deal. Keep in mind – value for money isn’t just about price. You need to make sure you have enough cover for your needs. 
It’s also worth considering any charges. Is there a fee for making changes to a policy? Many insurance policies, including HSBC Home Insurance, allow you to adjust your cover to suit your needs, free of charge – but not all do. 
How an insurance provider processes claims can also make a difference. For example, if they replace broken appliances for new, more energy-efficient models – this not only helps the environment, but also saves you money in the long run.
2. Combine buildings and contents cover 
You can buy buildings and contents cover separately, or as a joint policy from one insurance company. 
Homeowners are more likely to need both buildings and contents cover. You can often save money by taking these out as a joint policy compared to having separate policies. 
If you’re a tenant, the landlord you’re renting from is responsible for having buildings insurance. In this case, you’d only need to take out contents cover to protect your belongings.
3. Pay for your insurance annually 
Home insurance can be paid either once a year, or in monthly instalments. 
Many people choose to pay monthly to break the cost down into manageable payments. However, some insurers will charge for this. Paying annually for your policy, if you can afford to, could be the cheapest way to do it.
4. Increase your insurance excess 
If you need to make a claim, you may have to pay some money towards the overall cost. This is known as the insurance excess. 
There are 2 types of excess:
compulsory excess (the amount set by the insurer) 
voluntary excess (the amount you can choose to pay) 
Adding a voluntary excess could save you money by lowering the cost of your insurance premium – the amount of money you pay for an insurance policy. This is because the insurer won’t have to pay out as much in the event of a claim. 
If you do decide to increase your voluntary excess – you’ll need to pay this (on top of the compulsory excess) if you ever needed to make a claim. So, make sure it’s an amount you feel comfortable paying.
5. Build an emergency fund 
An emergency fund is money you save and put aside to cover an unexpected expense. Having savings to fall back on could help you pay for smaller repairs and reduce the need to borrow money or claim on your insurance. 
Find out how quickly you could build up your emergency fund with our emergency fund calculator. 
6. Maintain and protect your home 
Maintaining and protecting your property is often required for your home insurance to be valid. It can also reduce the chances of having to make a claim on your home insurance – and save you money in the long run. 
Simple measures can improve the safety and security of your home. For example, you could:
install and test smoke alarms 
inspect and service items to minimise wear and tear 
insulate your pipes and tank to prevent frozen and burst pipes 
install locks, an alarm or motion sensitive lights to deter thieves 
But remember, accidents can and do happen. That’s why it’s important to have enough home insurance in place to protect the things you’ve worked so hard for. 
HSBC Home Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Exclusions and terms and conditions apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Home Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How much home insurance do you need? 
What is home emergency cover? 
What insurance do you need with your mortgage?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/how-to-save-money-on-your-home-insurance/
########Top of main content 
[Meet life goals] Leaving a legacy 
5 May 2023
Mark Glover
Head of Financial Planning, HSBC Wealth and Personal Banking
Key takeaways 
Legacy goals can vary widely and may be financially and non-financially focused. It’s important to identify what matters most to you and your family. 
Leaving a legacy requires a thoughtful and strategic approach, which includes developing a plan, considering options, communicating with family, preparing heirs, and updating your plan regularly. 
To achieve your legacy goals, it’s important to start the planning process sooner. Seeking professional advice can help to maximise your chances to carry out your wishes smoothly. 
As your life course progresses, eventually you may set your sights on what you may leave behind, your legacy.
The term legacy can mean different things to different people. Many legacy goals will consider the financial aspect – how to pass on wealth. However, not all legacy goals are purely financial, and they can vary widely depending on your values, interests, and priorities. Before considering what should be left behind, you should first think about what matters most to you and your family.
Here, we outline some of the considerations and steps for establishing your legacy goals at ease.
Financially focused 
Family and personal legacy: Leaving a legacy for your family, such as bequeathing your wealth, but also things like writing a family history, or passing on important family traditions and values. 
Entrepreneurship: Building a successful business, creating jobs, and driving innovation that will benefit future generations, including your family. 
Philanthropy: Leaving a legacy of charitable giving, supporting causes that are important to you, and making a positive impact on the world. 
Non-financial focused 
Artistic or creative achievements: Leaving behind a body of work in the arts, such as writing, music, or visual art, that will continue to inspire and influence others. 
Advocacy and activism: Making a difference in the world through many aspects, such as environmental conservation, cultural and religious preservation, or even social and political advocacy, promoting positive change and leaving a legacy of social justice and equality. 
Education and mentorship: Helping to shape the lives of future generations through education and mentorship, sharing knowledge and wisdom that will endure long after you are gone. 
Scientific or technological advancement: Making significant contributions to science, technology, innovation, or medicine that will improve the quality of life for future generations. 
The key is to identify what is most important to you and to work towards leaving a positive and lasting impact on the world. 
Intergenerational Wealth Transfer 
Many people want to pass on wealth to their family. Taking a thoughtful and strategic approach can help you ensure that your wealth is managed and distributed in a way that reflects your values and supports the long-term success of your family. You can increase your chances of success by having the necessary structures in place (for example, legal frameworks and business succession plans) as well as by including other people, such as family, friends & trusted advisors.
Before making your plans, you should consider what you want and involve your family where relevant. What’s your overarching purpose for the wealth, for yourself, for your family and how do they all come together?
Intergenerational wealth transfer can be a complex process, but here are 5 steps you can take to make it smoother and more successful:
1. Develop a plan 
The first step is to develop a plan for passing on your wealth. This may involve working with financial and legal advisors, or other professionals to help you develop a comprehensive plan that considers your assets, taxes, and family dynamics. Don’t forgot to consider what you will need to retain to cover your own spending.
2. Consider your options 
There are many options for passing on wealth to your family, including insurance, gifts, trusts, and inheritances. Each option has different advantages and disadvantages, so it's important to carefully consider which approach is best for your situation.
3. Communicate with your family 
It's vital to communicate openly and honestly with your family about your intentions for passing on wealth. This can help prevent misunderstandings and potential conflicts and ensure that your wishes are carried out as you intended.
4. Prepare your heirs 
Preparing your heirs for inheriting wealth can help ensure that they are equipped to manage their finances wisely and make good decisions. This may involve setting an ideal timing of inheritance, providing financial education, mentoring and guidance on managing wealth responsibly.
5. Update your plan regularly 
It's important to update your plan regularly to reflect changes in your interpersonal dynamics, financial situation, and tax laws. This can help ensure that your plan remains effective and achieves your goals.
Legacy planning can be a complex area, where professional advice can be very beneficial. Timing is also an important consideration, so starting having conversations sooner maximises your chances of meeting your legacy goals. Passing on wealth to your family can be a significant and meaningful way to leave a legacy for future generations. No matter what your legacy goals are, taking time to consider them is an important first step to realising them.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related insights 
[Start investing] Three reasons to put cash to work today 
Cash underperformed the broad markets in 2023. Historically, multi-asset portfolios...[29 Jan] 
[Meet life goals] Retirement Reinvented: Unlocking Success in Act Two 
Plan for a secure future: Consider financial security, protecting your health, and paying off mortgages...[18 Sep] 
[Meet life goals] Retirement: Paving your way to Quality of Life 
Quality of Life goes beyond meeting \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/meet-life-goals/retirement/leaving-a-legacy/
########Top of main content 
Should you get single or joint life insurance? 
A joint policy is generally cheaper than taking out two separate policies for the same level of cover. However, there are other things to consider. 
This will depend on:
whether you and your partner have other dependants 
how much cover you both need 
your budget 
how flexible you’d like your policy to be 
Here’s a simple guide to help you decide. 
What is single life insurance? 
As the name suggests, a single life insurance policy covers one person and pays out if that person dies during the length of the policy. 
The policyholder needs to choose the amount of cover and for how long they want it to be in place. To make sure the money goes to who you want it to, having an up-to-date will or placing the policy in trust is really important.
You and your partner can each hold single policies. That way, if one of you dies, the surviving partner still has their own policy. And you can select different amounts and lengths on each policy, so you can tailor it to your individual needs.
What is joint life insurance? 
A joint life insurance policy covers two lives, so it pays out if either person dies during the length of the policy. It involves one application and just one monthly payment. A joint policy is normally taken out to cover the joint expense of a mortgage if one partner dies.
You don’t have to be married or civil partners to take joint cover. Any two people can take out a joint policy, including same-sex couples, to protect each other financially. 
The payout automatically goes to the other policyholder. Both partners are insured for the same amount, so the payout is the same whoever dies.
The key thing to remember about a joint life policy is it pays out only once – usually when the first partner dies. After this, the policy automatically ends, leaving the surviving partner with no cover left in place.
Which is the best life insurance for couples? 
This will depend entirely on your circumstances. Here are a few questions to help you decide:
Do you have other dependants? 
Having others to care for can determine whether you and your partner will need one payout (provided by a joint policy) or two (provided by two single policies). 
If you have no other dependants
If your partner is the only person who depends on you financially, a joint policy could make sense. One payout for your partner would be enough as there’s no-one else for a second payout to go to.
If you do have dependants
If you have children, for example, or you care for an elderly relative, a joint policy may not provide the protection you need. Remember, a joint policy only pays out on the death of the first policyholder – at which point the policy ends.
This means the surviving partner might need to take out another policy to protect the children. However, as they are likely to be older, this could make the cost of buying a new single policy significantly more expensive.
What level of cover do you need? 
Another consideration is the amount of life cover each partner needs. 
Taking out separate policies allows you to select different amounts of cover. Whereas with a joint policy, both policyholders would receive the same level of cover.
If your family has 2 breadwinners, you’ll probably want to consider insuring both of you.
As well as your family’s income, it’s important to think about your role and how your circumstances could change if you were no longer here. Because while there may not be a loss of income, there could be new costs to pay. 
If one of you is the primary carer for example, replacing this role could be expensive. For example, the average cost of sending a child to nursery part-time (25 hours) is over £7,000 a year.1 
So, if you’re in a 2-parent family – regardless of how much you earn – you should both consider taking out life insurance. It would make life a lot more comfortable if either of you had to face the future alone.
What’s your budget? 
A joint policy is generally cheaper than taking out two separate policies for the same level of cover. If you’re on a tight budget, a joint policy may be more affordable.
Think about whether the surviving partner would need to take out individual cover later in life. While a joint policy may be cheaper than two single policies initially, a joint policy plus an individual policy taken out when the surviving partner is older, could be costly.
The cost difference between buying a joint policy and 2 separate policies can often be quite small. It’s worth getting quotes for both options.
If there's not much in it, you may prefer the extra protection that separate policies can offer. Remember, 2 single policies offer 2 payouts – so you’d be getting twice the cover.
Do you want flexibility for the future? 
If you’re looking for flexibility, you might prefer to take 2 single life insurance policies. 
They would be independent from each other so you could each increase or decrease your individual covers as your circumstances change. Another consideration is that if your relationship was to end, your cover would be unaffected.
If you take a joint policy, you would both be insured for the same amount. And if you and your partner were to separate, your insurer may not be able to split your cover into 2 single policies. This would mean you’d need to cancel the joint policy and both take out new individual policies to protect any children you may have. As you will be older – and potentially less healthy – this could prove costly.
What happens to joint life insurance after a divorce? 
A joint life insurance policy is still valid after a divorce. Your cover will remain in place until the end of the term – unless you choose to cancel the policy. 
Explore your options 
At HSBC, we offer both single and joint life insurance online. 
Our life insurance calculator can help you find the cover you need. Just tell us what you want to protect and we’ll work out the rest.
HSBC Life Insurance is provided by HSBC Life (UK) Li\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/single-vs-joint-life-policy/
########Top of main content 
[Start investing] Quality bonds as a diversifier amid market downturn 
25 Nov 2022
Some people find bonds ‘boring’ because you don’t often hear much about them in the news. Their volatility is generally lower than that of equities, as is their long-term return potential. However, bonds can provide a steady stream of regular income and balance the overall risks of a portfolio, especially amid market downturn when stocks are generally more vulnerable.
What is a bond? 
Simply put, a bond is a type of agreement issued by governments or companies to raise funds (borrow) from investors. The issuer promises to repay the interest and principal amount by a set date known as maturity. Traditional bonds have fixed and recurring interest payments (coupons), which is why we also refer to bonds as fixed-income investments. But variable or floating coupons based on an underlying interest rate are also common. 
Features of a bond 
How does it work? 
Bond prices are inversely correlated with interest rates. When rates go up, bond prices fall and vice versa. For a $100 bond with a fixed coupon rate of 5% and a maturity of 5 years, investors will receive an interest income of $5 annually for four years, and $5 plus the $100 principal in the fifth year.
Bonds carry credit risk and the ability of the issuers to make payments is measured by industry credit ratings. A bond's credit rating indicates its credit quality and is based on the issuer's financial ability to make regular interest payments and repay the loan in full at maturity. Credit rating agencies (e.g., Moody’s & Standard & Poor’s) help to evaluate the creditworthiness of bonds. 
Investment grade bonds vs non-investment grade bonds 
Investment grade bonds generally have higher ratings (BBB- or above on the Standard & Poor's and Fitch scale) while high yield or junk bonds, classified as non-investment grade bonds, have lower ratings (below BBB-) and bear a higher risk of default. They also tend to pay higher coupons to compensate investors. 
When the economic outlook is deteriorating, investment grade bonds are usually preferred due to their higher quality to build portfolio resilience. Conversely, high yield bonds will be in favour when markets are buoyant.
Bonds are often a good portfolio diversifier to help investors ride through market volatility. Contact us to find out what types of bonds are suitable for you.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
[Start investing] What is an index fund 
Index funds offer investors a simple, low cost way to invest in a range of assets...[16 Aug] 
[Start investing] Behavioural Finance: How not to be your own biggest enemy! 
Despite being one of the smartest species on the planet, human beings aren’t always rational with their...[16 Jul] 
[Start investing] Why choose global investment grade corporate bonds over cash or short-term investment? 
Following successive rate hikes by major central banks during 2022 and H1 2023, deposit rates in many...[30 Jun] 
[Start investing] 5 Tips to Handle Market Volatility 
In today’s digitally connected world, short-term....[11 Feb] 
Disclaimer 
This document or video is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document or video is distributed and/or made available by HSBC Bank Canada (including one or more of its subsidiaries HSBC Investment Funds (Canada) Inc. (“HIFC”), HSBC Private Investment Counsel (Canada) Inc. (“HPIC”) and HSBC InvestDirect division of HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc. (“HIDC”)), HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HSBC Continental Europe, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited (UAE), HSBC UK Bank Plc, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (198401015221 (127776-V))/HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (20080100642 1 (807705-X)), HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch, HSBC Bank plc, Guernsey Branch, HSBC Bank plc in the Isle of Man, HSBC Continental Europe, Greece, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India (HSBC India), HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Limited, PT Bank HSBC Indonesia (HBID), HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A. (HSBC Uruguay is authorised and oversought by Banco Central del Uruguay), HBAP Sri Lanka Branch, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited – Philippine Branch, and HSBC FinTech Services (Shanghai) Company Limited (collectively, the “Distributors”) to their respective clients. This document or video is for general circulation and information purposes only.
The contents of this document or video may not be reproduced or further distributed to any person or entity, whether in whole or in part, for any purpose. This document or video must not be distributed in any jurisdiction where its distribution is unlawful. All non-authorised reproduction or use of this document or video will be the responsibility of the user and may lead to legal proceedings. The material contained in this document or video is for general information purposes only and does not constitute investment research or advice or a recommendation to buy or sell investments. Some of the statements contained in this document or video may be considered forward looking statements which provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or events and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. HBAP and the Distributors do not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained herein, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements. This document or video has no contractual value and is not by any means intended as a solicitation, nor a recommendation for the purchase or sale of any financial\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/start-investing/quality-bonds-as-a-diversifier-amid-market-downturn/
########Top of main content 
How much home insurance do you need? 
It's important to have enough home insurance to protect the things you've worked hard for, but how much is enough? 
Here, we help you work out how much home cover is right for you.
How much buildings insurance do you need?
How much contents insurance do you need?
You can buy buildings and contents cover separately, or as a joint policy from one insurance company. 
How much buildings insurance do you need? 
You should consider having enough buildings insurance to cover the amount it would cost you to rebuild your home from scratch. This is known as the ‘sum insured’.
How to calculate buildings insurance repair costs 
The cost of rebuilding your home isn’t the same amount as the price you paid for the property, or how much it’s currently worth. The rebuild cost is usually less, as it doesn’t include the value of the land.
If you recently made a mortgage application, you’ll have received a valuation which will include a rebuild cost. You can also use the rebuilding cost calculator rebuilding cost calculator This link will open in a new window from the Association of British Insurers (ABI). 
Some insurers may estimate this cost for you based on the number of bedrooms you have, known as a ‘bedroom-rated’ policy. And some may provide an unlimited value so you don’t need to specify the rebuild costs.
Keep in mind: 
home improvements, such as adding an extension or conservatory, can increase the rebuild cost 
rebuild costs can be higher for ‘non-standard construction’ properties 
rebuild costs can increase over time 
Most policies are index-linked, meaning they adjust to reflect increasing costs, but it’s something to check when you renew your policy, to make sure you have enough cover. 
How much contents insurance do you need? 
It's important you don't underestimate how much your belongings are worth. If you ever have to replace them, you’ll need enough contents insurance to cover your losses.
How to calculate home contents insurance 
To work out the value of your contents, you can:
make a list of items in each room of your home, including the loft or garage 
estimate how much it would cost to replace each item with a new one 
add up the cost of all your items to get your estimate 
Many websites offer contents insurance calculators to help you do this. 
The price of most items can be searched on the internet. However, for things such as antiques, or a valuable piece of jewellery, you may want to get these valued by a professional. 
Some insurance policies have a limit on how much you can claim on a single item. You may need to add extra cover for any items that exceed that limit.
How much is home insurance? 
The amount you spend on home insurance will depend on the type of property you have and the value of your contents. It will also depend on the amount of cover you need and if you add any optional extras.
For example, HSBC Home Insurance gives you a choice of different levels of protection for your home and contents. You can increase your cover by adding accidental damage cover, home emergency cover or legal protection. 
Before you buy any insurance product, it’s important to read the policy and understand the details including costs to make sure you get the cover you need. 
Explore: What to consider when buying insurance
HSBC Home Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Exclusions and terms and conditions apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Home Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is insurance excess? 
What insurance do you need with your mortgage? 
How to save money on your home insurance\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/how-much-home-insurance-do-i-need/
########Top of main content 
What is home emergency cover? 
If you ever need to make an emergency call-out for a tradesperson, home emergency cover could help fix the problem. 
Knowing that you have financial cover, can give you one less thing to worry about.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
What does emergency home cover insure against? 
Emergency home cover typically protects against property mishaps where you need emergency assistance. An emergency counts as something that is unexpected, which can:
affect the health and safety of you and your family 
cause damage to your home 
make your home insecure and open to thieves 
Common examples of property emergencies include: 
the loss of power, such as electricity or gas 
a water leak, such as a burst pipe 
boiler breakdowns 
roof damage, from a storm for example 
broken locks, doors, and windows after a burglary 
replacing the locks if the house keys are lost or stolen 
a pest infestation from rats, mice, and wasps 
What is not covered by home emergency cover? 
While home emergency covers the cost to get the urgent issue sorted – such as paying for an emergency plumber, parts and materials – it doesn’t cover the damage it may have caused, such as flooding. Damages to your home and belongings may be covered by your home insurance. 
Home emergency cover may not include things like:
routine maintenance, cleaning and servicing of your property 
repairs due to general wear and tear, such as dripping taps 
cosmetic damage to your property, such as paint on the carpet 
damage caused by poor workmanship or DIY 
the breakdown of electric showers, appliances or air conditioning equipment 
known emergencies, such as an existing pest problem 
emergencies that happen after your home has been left unoccupied for over 30 days 
Keep in mind – you’ll need to regularly maintain your property for home emergency cover to be valid. For example, it may not cover a broken boiler if it hasn’t been serviced in the past 12 months.
Should you get home emergency cover? 
Having emergency cover means that a problem can be resolved quickly, without you having the hassle of finding a registered tradesperson. There’s often just one number to call, 24 hours a day. You can also avoid hefty repair bills. 
If you have enough savings to cover any urgent repairs, you may not need home emergency cover. You also won’t need it if you’re renting – as a tenant, you should be covered under your landlord’s building insurance.
To help you decide, it’s important to consider:
if you could afford to pay for emergency repair if needed 
the cost of taking out home emergency cover 
if you need to pay an excess towards a claim 
if there’s a limit on how much you can claim 
You also need to check your home insurance policy to see if it’s already included.
How can you get home emergency cover? 
Depending on the provider, you may be able to get home emergency cover: 
as a separate policy 
included in your home insurance policy, as standard 
as an optional add-on to your home insurance policy 
We offer it as an optional add-on with our Home Insurance. 
Before you buy any insurance product, it’s important to read the policy and understand the details including costs – to make sure you get the cover you need.
HSBC Home Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Exclusions and terms and conditions apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Home Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How much home insurance do you need? 
What is insurance excess? 
What insurance do you need with your mortgage?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/protect-your-home-against-emergencies/
########Top of main content 
[Meet life goals] The importance of retirement planning for women 
24 Mar 2023
Among the retired women involved in a survey carried out by YouGov for HSBC1Footnote link 1, over 90% said they need up to £30,000 (around USD38,500) a year to fund their lifestyle. However, for many women, this amount is difficult to obtain. Another 29% stated that they don’t have enough money to make ends meet. A further 10% said their retirement savings aren’t enough to cover household bills, while 30% of respondents can’t afford to run a car.
Retirement planning is critical for women worldwide 
Although these numbers may vary from country to country, it does serve as a wake-up call to all women regardless of where you live. Globally, the gender pay gap is improving, but women generally earn less than men throughout their careers, which limits the amount they can save for retirement. For example, women are more likely to take career breaks or reduce their working hours to look after children or elderly parents, thereby affecting their pension contributions and retirement income.
As women live longer, they need retirement income for longer 
Life expectancy has also increased, with women generally living some four to eight years longer than men, due partially to more male smoking and drinking alcohol, physical stress with simultaneous aversions to medical treatment and health precautions, as well as genetic reasons[@]. Therefore, any retirement income may need to stretch further over a longer period of time for women. This fact shouldn’t be under-estimated. The earlier you start saving for your retirement, the more likely you are to:
be financially independent 
have sufficient funds available to support the lifestyle you want 
be able to cover an unexpected expense after you stop working 
5 ways to boost your retirement savings 
Taking action feels good. Here are some positive changes you can make today for a more comfortable retirement.
1. Maximise your pension contributions 
If you can, now is the time to add as much as possible to your workplace pension or your retirement savings and make the most of tax relief from the government. Some employers offer to match your contributions up to a certain limit – if yours does, try to make the most of it. 
If you’ve taken a career break, you may have gaps in your retirement savings. It may be possible to make voluntary contributions to make up for these.
2. Save more by making small changes 
Take a look at your budget to see where you could potentially free up money. The more you save now, the more you’ll have to retire with. 
3. Consider investing 
Investing is an alternative way to save for your future, and could potentially provide higher long-term growth than leaving your money in a savings account, and help you combat inflation. The key difference is there are no guarantees as the value of investments can go down, as well as up, and you may not get back what you invest. 
4. Make the most of joint allowances 
If you’re married, in a civil partnership or in a stable relationship with shared assets, you may want to look at both your pensions and savings together. Try to work out the cost of living together when you’re no longer working.
5. Adjust your retirement plans 
If you’re near retirement age and are concerned you won’t have enough money, think about whether you can delay when you finish work. If that’s an option, let your pension provider know as it may make sense to change the ways in which your pension is invested. 
Switching to reduced working hours or ‘semi-retirement’ can also give you more financial security, as well as a better work-life balance.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related insights 
[Meet life goals] Retirement Reinvented: Unlocking Success in Act Two 
Plan for a secure future: Consider financial security, protecting your health, and paying off mortgages...[18 Sep] 
[Meet life goals] Retirement: Paving your way to Quality of Life 
Quality of Life goes beyond meeting material needs. It encompasses multiple dimensions such as physical...[4 Sep] 
[Meet life goals] Leaving a legacy 
Legacy goals can vary widely and may be financially and non-financially focused. [5 May] 
Important information for Customers 
This document is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document is distributed by HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HSBC Continental Europe, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (127776-V) / HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (807705-X), The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch, and HSBC Bank plc, Guernsey Branch (collectively, the “Distributors”) to their respective clients. This document is for general circulation and information purposes only. This document is not prepared with any particular customers or purposes in mind and does not take into account any investment objectives, financial situation or personal circumstances or needs of any particular customer. HBAP has prepared this document based on publicly available information at the time of preparation from sources it believes to be reliable but it has not independently verified such information. The contents of this document are subject to change without notice. HBAP and the Distributors are not responsible for any loss, damage or other consequences of any kind that you may incur or suffer as a result of, arising from or relating to your use of or reliance on this document. HBAP and the Distributors give no guarantee, representation or warranty as to the accuracy, timeliness or completeness of this document. This document is not investment advice or recommendation nor is it intended to sell investments or services or solicit purchases or subscri\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/meet-life-goals/retirement/2023-03-24/
########Top of main content 
Investment Monthly: Short-term rate volatility offers buying opportunities in quality bonds 
1 Feb 2024 
Willem Sels
Global Chief Investment Officer, HSBC Global Private Banking and Wealth
Lucia Ku 
Global Head of Wealth Insights, HSBC Wealth and Personal Banking
Key takeaways 
As market expectations of a March Fed rate cut are too premature, we believe it will need to be priced out, leading to short-term volatility. But we see dips as buying opportunities as current real yields are too high, and as they fall, bond prices will rise. We prefer quality bonds such as major government bonds (7-10 years), investment grade credit (5-7 years) and Indian local currency bonds.
Lower bond yields and rate cuts are positive for equities, which tend to rally before the first rate cut. US equities are supported by strong earnings prospects and secular drivers in the US benefitting IT, Consumer Discretionary and Healthcare. We diversify into the strong growth leaders in Asia, such as India, Indonesia and South Korea. In Europe, we overweight IT, Energy and Healthcare, and upgrade Financials on the improved profitability of banks.
As tail risks remain, we will focus on quality assets and diversification. When major central banks are driving market direction, the correlation between equities and bonds tends to be high. Multi-asset portfolios, especially those with access to alternative assets (e.g. hedge funds and private equity) can maximise returns while mitigating uncertainties. 
Download full report Download full report for HSBC XX 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
sc Captions
tc Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Talking Points 
Each month, we discuss 3 key issues facing investors
1. What has caused the bond market volatility? 
Although the Fed continues to push back expectations of earlier rate cuts, the market is still pricing in a good chance of a cut by March, and six cuts in total for 2024. We think it is too premature and excessive.
Instead, we believe the Fed will cut rates three times (totalling 0.75%) in 2024, starting from June onwards. As the market will need to price out the March cut, it is likely to create some volatility in the short term. But we see those dips as buying opportunities.
Given the current level of economic activity, with US economic growth at 1.7% in 2024 (below the historical average), we think real yields are too high and unsustainable. As real yields come down, bond prices will rise. We prefer to lock in the current attractive yields of major government bonds (7-10 years) and investment grade credit (5-7 years). We also like Indian local currency bonds due to their inclusion in a global EM bond index, attractive yields and India’s growth prospects.
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC Global Private Banking as at 24 January 2024. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. 
2. Where do we see opportunities in equities amid slowing growth? 
Lower bond yields and potential rate cuts support valuations and earnings. Historically, markets tend to rally before the first rate cut. While US economic growth is expected to moderate in 2024, consumption remains healthy backed by higher real disposable income. Together with secular drivers such as technology revolution, healthcare innovation, the nearshoring of industry and re-industrialisation, US equities remain our most preferred equity market. We also upgrade Communication Services on solid earnings and potential M&A activity.
Slow growth, weak earnings momentum and wage pressures in Europe warrant our underweight on Eurozone equities. Yet, the divergent sectoral outlook supports our preference for IT, Energy and Healthcare there. We upgrade Financials to overweight as profitability of banks has improved while the price discount remains significant.
Asia remains fundamentally attractive despite continued property market stress in China. We continue to diversify in Asia by focusing on earnings and structural growth leaders. India and Indonesia stand to benefit from global supply chain diversification, robust foreign and domestic investment growth, and young demographics. South Korean equities are well positioned to capture the AI-driven recovery of the memory sector. Defensive sectors like Utilities will benefit from lower rates, which justifies our upgrade of Asian Utilities to overweight.
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC Global Private Banking, 8 January 2024. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. 
3. How can investors manage the tail risks? 
In addition to slowing growth, geopolitics remain a wild card, with a busy election calendar in 2024 and the rising geopolitical conflict in the Middle East adding to market uncertainty. 
Election results have so far been aligned with market expectations while oil prices have been range-bound despite the Red Sea situation as Saudi Arabia cut its price for exports to Asia. Energy prices may remain directionless in spite of the oil supply deficit supporting fundamentals. With limited upside, we downgrade the energy sector in all regions to neutral, except for Europe. As tail risks remain, we will continue to focus on quality assets and diversification.
When the Fed and other central banks determine much of the market direction, the correlation between equities and bonds tends to be high. Multi-asset portfolios, which allow retail investors to gain exposure to a diverse range of asset classes, especially alternative assets (e.g. hedge funds and private credit), can offer diversification benefits for maximising returns while mitigating uncertainties. These alternative assets are normally less accessible individually fo\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/asset-class-views/investment-monthly/2024-02/
########Top of main content 
Special Coverage: Fed begins to pivot to discuss rate cuts 
2 Feb 2024
Jose Rasco
Chief Investment Officer, Americas, HSBC Global Private Banking and Wealth
Michael Zervos
Investment Strategy Analyst, HSBC Global Private Banking and Wealth
Key takeaways 
As expected, the Fed left rates unchanged at 5.25-5.5% for a fourth straight meeting.The press statement from the FOMC reined in expectations for a March rate cut and Powell further explained that he thinks a cut at the next meeting is unlikely, as Fed officials really want to see a continuation of the good inflation data they've seen lately.
We still believe that the FOMC will begin to cut policy rates in the second quarter of this year, starting June, and will do so three times, lowering the Fed funds rate by 0.75% before year-end. 
We remain bullish on Treasuries and maintain medium-to-long duration. In the credit markets, we prefer investment grade with a focus on quality. For equity investors, the recent rally may face a few short-term headwinds, but the long-term fundamentals remain quite supportive. We continue to believe that the prospects of lower market and policy rates this year, a much-improved earnings outlook through 2025, and the tailwinds of several secular themes should support better US equity market valuations in 2024. We believe USD will be supported during a Fed easing cycle, amid a slowing global economy. 
What Happened? 
As expected, the Fed left rates unchanged at 5.25-5.5% for a fourth straight meeting. We still believe that the FOMC will begin to cut policy rates in the second quarter of this year, starting June, and will do so three times, lowering the Fed funds rate by 0.75% before year end. Next year, our outlook is for another 0.75% of policy rate cuts, leaving the Fed funds rate in the 3.75-4% range by year-end 2025. 
The FOMC removed a line from their statement that referenced "additional policy firming" but included a new sentence saying it won't be appropriate to cut rates until the committee has "gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2%.“ It’s important to note that the US Core PCE has slowed to a 1.5% annualised rate over the last three months and 1.9% annualised over the last six months.
The press statement from the FOMC reined in expectations for a March rate cut. Powell further explained in the press conference that he thinks a cut at the next meeting is unlikely, as Fed officials really want to see a continuation of the good inflation data they've seen lately. He did say that good news on that front could move up the time frame, keeping the door to a March cut slightly ajar. Powell sounded a cautious tone on the pace of rate cuts. He noted that the decision to start cutting rates would be highly consequential and pointed to past surprising turns in economic data.
Policymakers signalled they’re not yet ready to cut interest rates as soon as the next meeting in March, saying that a move likely won’t be appropriate until they gain more confidence that "inflation is moving sustainably toward 2%.“ No proposal to cut rates at this meeting, but the Fed did signal that they would look at all options going forward. The FOMC Chair said policymakers began discussing when to start slowing the pace of their balance sheet runoff, or quantitative tightening, at this meeting but plan to have a more robust conversation about it in March.
In the wake of fourth-quarter GDP rising more than forecast, the Fed characterised economic growth as "solid" and said job gains "remain strong". In terms of inflation, the Fed stated that inflation has eased over the past year but remained elevated (still above the 2% symmetric target).
The Fed omitted language that had been included in statement in some form since March 2023, calling the banking system "sound and resilient," and warning that tighter credit conditions were likely to weigh on the economy. 
Powell reiterated that they want to see more data. In the base case, the economy is performing well, and the labour market remains strong. If they see a weakening in the labour market, that would affect their decision to cut rates sooner, he added.
The Fed Chairman also noted that the disparity in views on the FOMC is clear from public remarks made by numerous policymakers. "There’s a wide disparity, a healthy disparity of views," Powell says of the committee.
Markets reacted to the meeting by further reducing the chances of a March rate cut, which supported the USD but weighed somewhat on equities overnight. The impact on bond markets was muted thanks to the quarterly refunding announcement by the US Treasury, which said it does not see the need to increase bond auction sizes, thereby reducing supply concerns. 
Source: Renaissance Macro Research, HSBC Global Private Banking and Wealth as at 14 December 2023. 
Investment implications 
The Fed has been on hold since July and made it fairly clear that it’s done tightening, unless inflation reignites. This seems unlikely as the US economy is slowing and disinflation continues. The FOMC yet again made its intentions clear by announcing it’s beginning to discuss lowering policy rates. Given the progress the Fed has seen in core inflation and the continued disinflation still underway, it should provide ample room to ease. 
For fixed income investors, we remain bullish on Treasuries and maintain medium-to-long duration. In the credit markets, we continue to like investment grade with a focus on quality. For equity investors, the recent rally may face a few short-term headwinds, but the long-term fundamentals remain quite supportive. We continue to believe that the prospects of lower market and policy rates this year, a much-improved earnings outlook through 2025, and the tailwinds of several secular themes should provide the impetus for better US equity market valuations in 2024. 
Financial markets are expecting interest rate cuts in 2024, with investors pricing in the probability tha\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/market-outlook/special-coverage/2024-02-02/
########Top of main content 
Think Future 2024: Your guide to the global investment landscape 
22 Nov 2023 
Willem Sels
Global Chief Investment Officer, HSBC Global Private Banking and Wealth
Navigating a complex world through quality assets and structural opportunities 
The financial markets have experienced another eventful year, from the collapse of Silicon Valley Bank in the first quarter to the geopolitical conflict in the Middle East in October. Moreover, central banks’ aggressive rate hikes have sent bond yields to multi-year highs and made financial conditions more challenging.
As we look ahead to 2024, we see two positive drivers on the horizon. The number one challenge of rate hikes in major economies is finally fading away. The other positive is that the US economy appears to be heading for a soft landing, mitigating the risk of a global recession. These developments should allow financial markets to breathe a sigh of relief.
However, Europe is teetering on the brink of recession and China’s property sector will continue to weigh on global economic growth, while lingering geopolitical tensions and a busy election calendar in 2024 promise further bouts of market volatility. What should investors do in this complex environment?
Positioning for a mild acceleration of growth in the second half of 2024
Although global growth will be relatively slow, it remains positive with a full-year GDP growth forecast of 2.3% for 2024. In fact, we expect a mild acceleration in the second half of 2024 because falling inflation should help drive consumption, while the expectation of rate cuts led by the US in Q3 2024 should support investment and boost margins. What’s more, we see long-term structural trends turning into attractive opportunities.
Setting sail on the right course
Bond yields remain at attractive levels but tight financial conditions, slow growth and heightened geopolitical risks have led us to maintain our preference for high-quality bonds. What has changed from the last quarter is that government bonds of medium-to-long duration in developed markets look more attractive, as do Indian local currency bonds given their compelling yields, diversification benefits and India’s growth prospects.
In the equity market, we prefer quality large-cap companies because they can generally withstand higher rates and market uncertainty better. Earnings potential will become a key metric for stock selection. Geographically, the US offers solid fundamentals and structural opportunities, such as the re-industrialisation trend and rapid innovation. That should allow companies in the technology, industrials, consumer discretionary and healthcare sectors to surprise positively on earnings.
In Asia, growth momentum in India and Indonesia remains strong. In addition, we expect earnings in the Asian tech sector to bottom out soon, and South Korea should see a broad-based recovery in 2024 as the global tech cycle improves.
Sustainability remains an important theme for investors, especially with the UN Climate Change Conference (COP 28) turning the spotlight on the need for more global collaboration to address climate change. With ongoing investment in renewable energy and biodiversity, and continued improvement in ESG governance, companies that can take advantage of these developments will be well-placed for long-term outperformance.
A focus on quality and fundamentals has served us well in 2023 and we feel the same will be true going into next year. But we see many opportunities that we want to capture and believe that the beginning of the year is always a good time to review your portfolio. We hope our investment themes will help you achieve your investment and protection goals.
Best wishes for a successful investment journey in 2024.
Download the full publication 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
zh-Hans Captions
zh-Hant Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Investment themes 
1. Optimise bond returns with quality and duration 
We believe central bank pauses will lead to a rate plateau, with the US Federal Reserve likely to start cutting in Q3 2024 and the European Central Bank and the Bank of England following later. Amid a high-for-longer rate environment and slow growth in developed markets, we favour investment grade bonds as they’re better able to navigate tight financial conditions and heightened geopolitical risks, and also extended our duration positioning across developed market government bonds to medium-to-long in order to lock in attractive yields before they come down. ​
We look to longer maturities of up to 7-10 years in US Treasuries and UK gilts. For corporate bonds, we maintain our preference for investment grade credit and maturities of 5-7 years. ​
We favour Indian local currency bonds for yield enhancement and diversification.
2. Focus on large-cap stocks with attractive earnings potential 
The US economy is more resilient than most other markets, and that should remain the case in 2024 thanks to cooling inflation and the end of rate hikes. These trends support equity valuations and improve companies’ profit margins. Fundamentally, we remain bullish on Asia, but the divergence in growth has led us to favour India and Indonesia above all. Both enjoy a positive structural growth outlook, favourable demographics and strong domestic consumption. South Korea should perform well as the global tech cycle improves. Overall, we prefer quality large-cap companies with strong balance sheets and low debt levels.
We continue to prefer US over European stocks and overweight Asia ex Japan equities, particularly India, Indonesia and South Korea.
In Latin America, Mexico is benefitting from US\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/market-outlook/investment-outlook/2023-11/
########Top of main content 
[Meet life goals] Family First 
29 Feb 2024 
Nearly half of us prioritise supporting our families financially: Learn how to protect your family from life's surprises 
Family life is undergoing unprecedented transformations. From social and economic shifts to cultural changes, and with a heightened emphasis on health, people’s perspectives are evolving, redefining what truly matters in life.
At HSBC, we explored these changes by surveying people worldwide about their life quality and how this is reflected in their priorities. The findings, shared in our inaugural Quality of Life Report1Footnote link 1 , reveal that family doesn’t just matter, but that it almost always comes first.
Download the full publication 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Top goal: family financial security 
Ensuring the well-being of loved ones is a top priority for families everywhere, regardless of their composition. Our survey found that supporting the family financially was among the top three goals of 47% of respondents. 
Most people share common objectives when it comes to long-term financial planning. They aim to prepare for unexpected events like illness or accidents, provide for their family in the event of their passing, transfer their wealth to their children, and safeguard the interests of their spouse or partner.
The global wellness sector is booming, so it’s no surprise that people are prioritising their family’s well-being - whether that’s everyday budgeting to afford a gym subscription or saving for the future to fund a child’s future studies. Our Quality of Life Report reveals that achieving financial well-being isn’t just about securing wealth for our family, their health is also integral to our own well-being, and it can affect our overall Quality of Life. 
Taylan Turan
Global Head of Retail Banking and Strategy, HSBC
Mental health is closely interlinked with financial and physical fitness 
In our survey, we asked people to rank the importance of physical and mental wellness and financial fitness as contributors to a good Quality of Life. Collectively, they assigned a total of 64 out of 100 points to these elements.
Moreover, financially fit respondents were 4.3 times more likely to score higher in terms of mental wellness. Those who valued physical wellness had a 9.3 times higher likelihood of above-average mental health and a 1.5 times greater probability of above-average financial fitness. 
These insights underscore the profound impact that financial stability and protection can have on our overall peace of mind, not only for ourselves but also for our loved ones. When we’ve a sense of well-being, it instils confidence to explore new opportunities and pursue dreams.
When is the best time to protect your family’s future? 
When it comes to family, there are four top considerations for most customers across Hong Kong and worldwide; financially protecting our loved ones from life’s surprises; providing adequate caregiving support through life stages, wealth planning to fuel their dreams; and protecting our own peace of mind. 
Edward Moncreiffe
CEO, HSBC Life Hong Kong
No insurance solution can cover every eventuality, but a timely investment in protection can help safeguard your family from life’s unexpected challenges. Act early and this protection can serve as a cornerstone for your family's well-being.
Encouragingly, we’ve observed that each new generation is growing more financially astute, and more likely to plan ahead compared to their predecessors.
Wondering how to proceed with your family’s protection? 
When it comes to putting in safeguards to protect your family’s future, seeking professional guidance is essential. At HSBC, we understand your protection needs at different life stages and secure your peace of mind to protect your families against uncertainties and challenges with our comprehensive wealth solutions.
Explore the possibilities, assess your needs, and embark on the journey of family protection with HSBC.
Related Insights 
[Meet life goals] Retirement Reinvented: Unlocking Success in Act Two 
Plan for a secure future: Consider financial security, protecting your health, and paying off mortgages...[18 Sep] 
[Meet life goals] Retirement: Paving your way to Quality of Life 
Quality of Life goes beyond meeting material needs. It encompasses multiple dimensions such as physical...[4 Sep] 
[Meet life goals] Leaving a legacy 
Legacy goals can vary widely and may be financially and non-financially focused. [5 May] 
Notes 
https://internationalservices.hsbc.com/quality-of-life/ 
Disclaimer 
This document or video is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document or video is distributed and/or made available by HSBC Bank Canada (including one or more of its subsidiaries HSBC Investment Funds (Canada) Inc. (“HIFC”), HSBC Private Investment Counsel (Canada) Inc. (“HPIC”) and HSBC InvestDirect division of HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc. (“HIDC”)), HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited (UAE), HSBC UK Bank Plc, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (198401015221 (127776-V))/HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (20080100642 1 (807705-X)), HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch, HSBC Bank plc, Guernsey Branch, HSBC Bank plc in the Isle of Man, HSBC Continental Europe, Greece, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India (HSBC India), HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Limited, PT Bank HSBC Indonesia (HBID), HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A. (HSBC Urugu\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/meet-life-goals/protection/family-first/
########Top of main content 
[Meet life goals] Retirement Reinvented: Unlocking Success in Act Two 
18 Sep 2023
Key takeaways 
Plan for a secure future: Consider financial security, protecting your health, and paying off mortgages. Align your financial portfolio with your purpose. 
Address healthcare and inflation concerns: Be mindful of declining physical health and increasing healthcare expenses. Mitigate the impact of inflation on your savings and plan for the future cost of living. 
Embrace active retirement: Pursue fulfilling activities and find purpose to reduce cognitive decline and spend your time meaningfully.
Download the full publication 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
es Captions
sc Captions
tc Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Planning for retirement has always been a crucial financial goal for individuals, and it remains important across generations. It ranks as the second most important priority for Boomers1Footnote link 1 and Gen X, following immediate financial security2Footnote link 2. Even Millennials, for whom retirement is still some time away, consider it an important financial objective, after achieving financial security, providing for the family, and generating additional income.
The amount of savings perceived to be required for retirement varies significantly across markets, ranging from USD302,000 in India to USD1.2 million in US, with Hong Kong, Singapore, and mainland China not far behind.
These anticipated savings needed align with the differing costs of living between Emerging and Developed markets. Markets like Hong Kong and Singapore rank as the most expensive in Mercer’s “Cost of Living City Ranking 2023”,3Footnote link 3 while in Emerging markets like Mexico and India are more affordable. Hence, when planning for retirement, it’s essential to consider the desired retirement location.
Average savings needed for retirement by market (USD)
*The result is based on survey respondents’ view on how much savings they needed. The values are for reference only. How much is needed will be di fferent for every individual. It’s advised to use professional tools such as a retirement calculator or seek financial planning advice for better assessment of individual retirement plans. 
Addressing health and inflation concerns for a financially resilient future 
The savings needed for retirement go beyond day-to-day costs and are influenced by concerns about declining physical and cognitive health, increasing healthcare expenses, and longer life expectancy.
Healthcare costs 
Inflation 
Hong Kong, which now boasts the longest life expectancy in the world at 85.3 years, and Singapore, which ranks fifth at 84.1 years, show greater anxiety about health in retirement4Footnote link 4.
Increasing healthcare costs are a significant concern in Hong Kong, Singapore, and Malaysia, while people in locations with universal healthcare, like UK, mainland China, and UAE, show less worry. Planning for retirement should also consider protection against healthcare expenses, especially coverage during retirement, and access to care services.
Inflation concerns are highest in US, Singapore, Hong Kong, Mexico, and Malaysia, reflecting recent inflation trends5Footnote link 5. It's important to note that the expected savings required for retirement may not adequately account for the future cost of living, creating a growing gap that needs attention.
There are several strategies that can be employed to safeguard your finances against inflation, including considering buying if you’re currently renting property, and investing rather than saving. Inflationary times are often a good time to buy stocks, particularly in companies that can increase prices more naturally, such as companies that use commodities. 
Healthcare costs 
Hong Kong, which now boasts the longest life expectancy in the world at 85.3 years, and Singapore, which ranks fifth at 84.1 years, show greater anxiety about health in retirement4Footnote link 4.
Increasing healthcare costs are a significant concern in Hong Kong, Singapore, and Malaysia, while people in locations with universal healthcare, like UK, mainland China, and UAE, show less worry. Planning for retirement should also consider protection against healthcare expenses, especially coverage during retirement, and access to care services.
Inflation 
Inflation concerns are highest in US, Singapore, Hong Kong, Mexico, and Malaysia, reflecting recent inflation trends5Footnote link 5. It's important to note that the expected savings required for retirement may not adequately account for the future cost of living, creating a growing gap that needs attention.
There are several strategies that can be employed to safeguard your finances against inflation, including considering buying if you’re currently renting property, and investing rather than saving. Inflationary times are often a good time to buy stocks, particularly in companies that can increase prices more naturally, such as companies that use commodities. 
Harnessing purpose and engagement in retirement 
At a spontaneous level, retirement still evokes traditional dreams of spending time with family and friends, travelling the world, and a carefree life where one doesn’t have to worry too much about finances. Increasingly retirement no longer marks the end of one’s productive life, but the beginning of another chapter in the book of life. Just over half of working individuals intend to work beyond official retirement, motivated by a commitment to remain healthy, engaged, and financially secure.
The top reason mentioned for planning to work beyond retirement is to stay engaged and active. Staying active can take many forms, in\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/meet-life-goals/retirement/unlocking-success-in-act-two/
########Top of main content 
[Start investing] Three reasons to put cash to work today 
29 Jan 2024
Willem Sels
Global Chief Investment Officer, HSBC Global Private Banking and Wealth
Key takeaways 
Cash underperformed the broad markets in 2023. Historically, multi-asset portfolios delivered three times the return on cash on average, both in low and high interest rate periods. 
As major central banks are done with rate hikes, the cumulative return from holding cash over any relevant time horizon is unlikely to match the current level of annualised yields. 
Markets are forward looking and have rallied historically ahead of rate cuts. It’s sensible to put cash to work. This can be done through investing in a multi-asset portfolio to diversify risks while maximising potential returns. 
With interest rates expected to decline amid falling inflation and slowing growth, the appeal of high cash rates should be re-evaluated. Historically, multi-asset portfolios delivered three times the return on cash on average in both low and high interest rate periods. We highlight three reasons why it is important to deploy cash today.
1. Returns on cash have been low compared to other asset classes 
Broad markets indeed outperformed cash in 2023. Cash return of around 5% may appear attractive when compared to the historical cash returns in the period between the Global Financial Crisis and the COVID recession. But the real opportunity cost of cash stems from its relative performance compared to other assets, and these have been substantially higher in 2023. Moreover, with the consumer prices rising around 3.5% in 2023, these nominal returns translate to only 1.5% real return for cash.
As cash rates are the fundamental building block for all asset class returns, an increase in cash rates lifts the total long-term expected returns across all markets: stocks, bonds, and alternatives. Furthermore, the risk premia for government bonds and equity markets increased in 2023, boosting their potential for outperformance in the future. It is important that investors should not evaluate investment opportunities (such as cash) in isolation but against alternative opportunities, and to consider the prospective real returns rather than nominal only.
Chart 1: Cash underperformed broad markets in 2023 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC Global Private Banking as at 8 January 2024. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance 
2. Major central banks are done with rate hikes 
Another important observation is that rate hikes are already behind us. At the time of writing, forecasters, markets, and central bankers all are expecting no further interest rate increases from their current levels. Money market futures are implying approximately six 0.25% cuts by January 2025 in the US and Eurozone. We expect interest rate cuts to commence from the middle of 2024. This means that the cumulative return from holding cash over any relevant time horizon is unlikely to match the current level of annualised yields.
Chart 2: Expected rate cuts become a tailwind and returns on cash holdings will start to fall 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC Global Research, HSBC Global Private Banking as at 19 December 2023. These are our forecasts which are subject to change 
3. Markets have rallied historically ahead of rate cuts 
Finally, let’s look at all the historical scenarios relating to the initial interest rate cuts following a hiking cycle. As Chart 3 shows, both the stocks and bond markets have delivered 8-9% total return in the eight months ahead of the first rate cut on average, significantly outperforming cash holdings. Markets are forward looking. They tend to anticipate rate cuts and rally ahead of them, especially for bonds. 
Chart 3: Much of the rally happens before the first cut, especially for bonds 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC Global Private Banking as at 19 December 2023 with historical performance since the late 1980s. Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance 
In summary, we believe stock and bond markets are going to substantially outperform cash in the year leading up to initial rate cuts, as they have in the past cycles. Diversified multi-asset portfolios, especially with access to alternatives (e.g., hedge funds, private equity and commodities), can help maximise returns while mitigating uncertainties.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
[Start investing] What is an index fund 
Index funds offer investors a simple, low cost way to invest in a range of assets...[16 Aug] 
[Start investing] Behavioural Finance: How not to be your own biggest enemy! 
Despite being one of the smartest species on the planet, human beings aren’t always rational with their...[16 Jul] 
[Start investing] Why choose global investment grade corporate bonds over cash or short-term investment? 
Following successive rate hikes by major central banks during 2022 and H1 2023, deposit rates in many...[30 Jun] 
[Start investing] 5 Tips to Handle Market Volatility 
In today’s digitally connected world, short-term....[11 Feb] 
Disclaimer 
This document or video is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document or video is distributed and/or made available by HSBC Bank Canada (including one or more of its subsidiaries HSBC Investment Funds (Canada) Inc. (“HIFC”), HSBC Private Investment Counsel (Canada) Inc. (“HPIC”) and HSBC InvestDirect division of HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc. (“HIDC”)), HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited (UAE), HSBC UK Bank Plc, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (198401015221 (127776-V))/HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (20080100642 1 (807705-X)), HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch, HSBC Bank plc, Guernsey Branch, HSBC Bank plc in the Isle of Man, HSBC Continental Europe, Greece, The Hongkon\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/start-investing/2024-01-25/
########Top of main content 
[Meet life goals] Retirement: Paving your way to Quality of Life 
4 Sep 2023 
Key takeaways 
Quality of Life goes beyond meeting material needs. It encompasses multiple dimensions such as physical and mental wellness, and financial fitness. Neglecting any one of these areas can hinder overall well-being and satisfaction. 
It’s important to consider all the different dimensions of Quality of Life and actively work to address any gaps or areas for improvement. Taking proactive steps to enhance physical and mental wellness, and financial fitness can lead to a more balanced and fulfilling life. 
Rather than relying on generic savings plans, tailor financial plans to specific goals and aspirations. This includes considering a range of different financial products and investment options.
HSBC Quality of Life Report 2023 
Quality of Life means different things. Each person's perception, and their reality, are entirely subjective. The HSBC Quality of Life Report, 20231Footnote link 1 addresses this subjectivity. The survey-based Quality of Life Index considers the relative importance individuals assign to different dimensions and their self-assessment of how they score on each.
Download full report 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
es Captions
sc Captions
tc Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Building a balanced life: The crucial ingredients for Quality of Life 
What does Quality of Life mean? Most respondents said "a healthy body and mind" and "financial security", ahead of "quality time with family", "travel and family vacations", and even "leading a happy and meaningful life". This is a recognition that physical and mental wellness, and financial fitness are foundational to being able to do the things that really matter to people. What is important to each person is subjective and for each of us to reflect on. When asked to score the importance of individual factors that contribute to Quality of Life, people on average allocated 64 points out of 100 to physical and mental wellness, and financial fitness combined. Accordingly, our HSBC Quality of Life Index is composed of these three dimensions.
Money may not buy happiness, but it undeniably contributes to mental wellness 
Increasingly, our clients are taking a more holistic view of their well-being. We see a strong link between physical and mental wellness, and financial fitness where all three dimensions are interconnected and improvements in all three will drive an overall improvement in Quality of Life. 
Lavanya Chari, Global Head of Investments and Wealth Solutions, Global Private Banking and Wealth, HSBC
There's a strong link between these three dimensions. Exercise is recognised as a sound investment in health. Recent research shows that exercise is more beneficial for conditions such as anxiety and depression than even psychotherapy or medications2Footnote link 2.
From the Quality of Life Index, we find those who rate themselves as physically fit are 9.3 times more likely to score above average on mental wellness versus those who consider themselves physically unfit.
Despite the adage “money can’t buy happiness,” we’re all intuitively aware that financial security can improve peace of mind. There’s even scientific evidence that suggests money can buy peace of mind - up to a point. This conclusion is consistent with the Quality of Life Index. Those who rate themselves as financially fit are 4.3 times more likely to score above average on the mental well-being scale.
Boost your physical and mental wellness, and financial fitness to unlock Quality of Life 
Quality of Life Index and Quality of Life Index Scores in 9 markets 
Developed vs Emerging Markets 
The Quality of Life Index for 2023 across all respondents stands at 75 out of a maximum 100 points. Individual dimension scores that contribute to the overall score are 82 for financial fitness, 73 for physical wellness and 70 for mental wellness.
Quality of Life Index by market 
The Quality of Life Index across the nine different markets is 75. See how the markets breakdown below:
Emerging markets outperform Developed markets on all dimensions of the index, with significant gaps in physical wellness (13 points) and mental wellness (12 points). As a result, Developed markets lag Emerging markets by 10 points in overall Quality of Life.
The gap for mental wellness is driven by significantly higher levels of optimism and confidence, and stronger social connections among individuals from Emerging markets. By contrast, many people in Developed markets are concerned about the rising cost of living and inflation, affecting their outlook for the future. This appears to be less of a concern in Emerging markets.
People in Emerging markets seem to do better when it comes to financial planning. We see that they regularly review their plans, are more confident in choosing financial products, and they periodically reassess their risk tolerance levels. This is good practice for everyone. Regardless of our external circumstances, being disciplined about finances can provide greater control and assurance.
People in sedentary office jobs need to be especially vigilant about making time for exercise and leading a healthy lifestyle to maintain good physical health.
Quality of Life Index and Quality of Life Index Scores in 9 markets 
The Quality of Life Index for 2023 across all respondents stands at 75 out of a maximum 100 points. Individual dimension scores that contribute to the overall score are 82 for financial fitness, 73 for physical wellness and 70 for mental wellness.
Quality of Life Index by market 
The Quality of Life Index across the nine different markets is 75. See \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/meet-life-goals/retirement/paving-your-way-to-quality-of-life/
########Top of main content 
[Start investing] Behavioural Finance: How not to be your own biggest enemy! 
19 Jun 2023
Neha Sahni
Director, Global Market Strategist, HSBC Global Private Banking and Wealth
Key takeaways 
Despite being one of the smartest species on the planet, human beings aren’t always rational with their decisions especially when it comes to investing. Our emotions and personal beliefs often play a key role in our investment decision-making process. 
This is where the science of behavioural finance comes in, which focuses on the various psychological factors and emotions that impact investors’ decisions in the financial markets. 
We explore six common cognitive biases that impact individual investors and ways to address them. A rules-based investment strategy is a good way of avoiding behavioural biases, because it reduces the chance of trading on impulse or being driven by fear and greed. 
What is Behavioural Finance? 
Behavioural finance is a field of study that focuses on psychological factors driving investors’ decisions in the financial markets. By blending finance and psychology, behavioural finance tries to identify biases that lead investors to make irrational investment decisions and demonstrates how difficult it can be to get rid of these human follies even when they are told that their choices aren’t optimal. Several behavioural finance studies show that financial markets can be influenced by investor sentiment, which may sometimes be too optimistic or pessimistic, and deviate from underlying fundamentals.
Common cognitive biases that impact investors’ decision-making abilities 
Anchoring and adjustment bias: people tend to estimate based on initial guesses or not-so-relevant information to assess the value of an asset. They also do not adjust to new information. 
Overconfidence bias: thinking we know more than we do fuels irrational investment decisions, leading to sub-optimal returns. The general belief that they can outsmart everyone else makes individual investors trade more frequently, adversely impacting their returns. 
Investor myopia: this represents an investor’s impulsive behaviour driven by greed or fear. Hype created on various social media platforms about the attractiveness of an asset could lead to a feeling called FOMO (fear of missing out). 
Herd behaviour: the tendency to blindly follow the crowd makes people feel safe in a community. Mimicking what other investors are doing without due diligence will lead to speculative frenzies (e.g. the dot com bubble). 
Disposition effect: investors sell winners too early and ride losers too long. This is because people dislike incurring losses much more than they enjoy making gains, and end up losing even more. The disposition effect could therefore prove to be costly, if left unchecked. 
Status-quo bias: Humans prefer the safety of the current state. This explains why people prefer to hold on to their savings in cash, rather than invest, even though inflation will erode the purchasing power of their savings overtime. When they invest, the tendency of loss aversion leads them to avoid taking small, calculated risks even when they’re worth it. 
Take the emotions out and embrace the investment process 
FOMO
Fear of Missing out is often:
	JOMO
Joy of Missing out is when	
Driven by the urge to make short term gains.
Driven by social media type and herd behaviour.
Evoked by the feeling of 'being left out' because others appear to be doing it.
	
You don't feel the need for constant stimulation.
You let the latest hype pass- Don't underestimate the value of doing nothing.
Don't time the markets and invest for the long run.
Take emotions out by pre-committing to a rules based investment process.
Keep faith in your solid investment process and stick to it
	
Take the emotions out and embrace the investment process 
FOMO
Fear of Missing out is often:
Driven by the urge to make short term gains.
Driven by social media type and herd behaviour.
Evoked by the feeling of 'being left out' because others appear to be doing it.
Driven by the urge to make short term gains.
Driven by social media type and herd behaviour.
Evoked by the feeling of 'being left out' because others appear to be doing it.
	
JOMO
Joy of Missing out is when 
You don't feel the need for constant stimulation.
You let the latest hype pass- Don't underestimate the value of doing nothing.
Don't time the markets and invest for the long run.
Take emotions out by pre-committing to a rules based investment process.
Keep faith in your solid investment process and stick to it
You don't feel the need for constant stimulation.
You let the latest hype pass- Don't underestimate the value of doing nothing.
Don't time the markets and invest for the long run.
Take emotions out by pre-committing to a rules based investment process.
Keep faith in your solid investment process and stick to it
	
How can investors avoid their behavioural biases to achieve better investment outcomes? 
Key behavioural bias	How to address these biases
	
Anchoring and adjustment bias
	
1. Don’t try to address all biases at once. Identify the top two or three biases that impact your investment decisions the most and try to continuously keep those biases or behaviours in check.
2. Adopt a rules-based strategy that combines core holdings (also known as “Strategic Asset Allocation”) and thematic investments (often referred as “Tactical Asset Allocation” or “satellites”) in a well-diversified portfolio, along with periodic portfolio reviews. This strategy statistically delivers positive outcomes over the long term.
3. Remove discretion from day-to-day decision making around trading and investment, and stick to your investment strategy over the long term. This should protect you from your conscious and unconscious behavioural biases and stop you making impulsive decisions
	
Overconfidence bias	
Investor myopia	
Herd behaviour	
Disposition effect	
Status-quo bias	
How can investors avoid their behavioural b\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/start-investing/2023-06-16/
########Top of main content 
UK in Focus: UK Autumn Statement: Spent 
8 Dec 2023
Key takeaways 
The UK Chancellor was able to announce lower borrowing,more headroom against targets, and GBP20bn of tax cuts. 
But the margin against targets is still thin, even with assumed spending cuts and the highest tax burden since 1948. 
From a Bank of England perspective, the biggest news may be the 10% rise in the National Living Wage. 
UK data review (Sep/Oct 2023)
GDP growth was slightly ahead of consensus in both September (+0.2% m-om) and Q3 (flat on the quarter). By industry, services output rose 0.2% m-o-m in September, industrial production was flat and construction activity was up 0.4%.This suggests fairly decent momentum going into Q4 and that a negative quarterly print can be avoided there, too. In other words, we think that the UK should avoid recession. But of course, zero quarterly growth is hardly much to get excited about, and weakness in domestic demand remains a concern.
Pay growth edged down from 8.2% to 7.9% in the third quarter versus the same period last year, well ahead of consensus which had expected a drop to 7.3%. The upside surprise appears to have been driven by stronger-thanexpected bonus payments which, in the private sector, were up over 27% y-o-y in September, with strength concentrated in non-financial services. Excluding bonuses, whole economy pay growth edged down from 7.7%, still growing at a rate which is well above levels consistent with hitting 2% inflation.
Total employment rose by +54,000 in the three months to September (consensus -198,000), while the unemployment rate was steady at 4.2% (consensus 4.3%). As has been the case since last month, the Office of National Statistics is producing its ‘experimental’ data while statisticians improve the underlying methodology, but that notwithstanding, employment appears to have grown over the past couple of months and the jobless rate has held steady.
CPI inflation dropped from 6.7% to 4.6% y-o-y in October – a slightly bigger decline than expected by consensus (4.7%) and the lowest reading since October 2021. The decline was broad-based but by far the biggest drag was utility price inflation – mostly the dropping out of sharp rises in bills last October. The core CPI rate also fell, from 6.1% to 5.7% y-o-y, as services inflation edged down from 6.9% to 6.6% and goods inflation dropped from 4.7% to 4.3%.
PMIs recovered a little in November, amid falling inflation and a perception that interest rates have now peaked. The manufacturing print rose to 46.7 from 44.8 (consensus: 45.0), while the services reading rose (marginally) back into growth territory, at 50.5, up from 49.5 (consensus: 49.5).
UK Autumn Statement: Spent 
Lower borrowing, more headroom, GBP20bn of tax cuts 
In the end, the Autumn Statement was an easier ride for the Chancellor than it might have been just a few weeks ago. Thanks to an extraordinary revenue windfall (see dark grey bars in chart) he was able to announce lower borrowing, double the previous headroom against his targets, and GBP20bn of giveaways – notably cuts to National Insurance Contributions (NICS) and the permanent extension of full expensing on business investment.
That was due to a helpful set of revisions from the Office for Budget Responsibility (OBR) in the pre-measures forecasts. Had the Chancellor not announced any policy changes, the forecast would have been for GBP70bn of extra revenues by 2028/29, and a deficit down to just 0.5% of GDP.
Source: OBR 
From a BoE perspective, the National Living Wage rise may be the biggest news 
The Chancellor did end up choosing to spend it. But the market reaction was very far from the one seen in the September 2022 ‘mini budget’. Not only was the loosening ‘paid for’ by the additional revenues, but the OBR says that the measures in the Budget will eventually be disinflationary – by raising the supply side of the economy through higher labour force participation and business investment.
Even to the extent that’s true, the Bank of England (BoE) may be a little concerned about the impact of the c10% rise in the National Living Wage for April 2024, especially given the tax cuts, benefit rises, and political cycle (which might mean even more loosening in the spring).
‘Fiscal fictions’ could be a problem for the next government 
Beyond the near term, it may not be as rosy a picture as it seems. There remain ‘fiscal fictions’ embedded in the OBR’s forecasts, including huge real-terms cuts to unprotected departmental spending. And the tax burden is still set to rise to its highest level since 1948. This leaves whoever is in government next with some tough decisions.
Some media reports (Sky News) have suggested that the Conservatives might want to follow the employee NICS tax cuts, which take effect in January, with an early election, say, in May. That would certainly spice things up – but as the cuts offset only a fraction of the rise in the cost of living and taxation in the last couple of years, we are not sure they are going to be an electoral game changer, any more than a growth or inflation game changer.
Source: Refinitiv Eikon 
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
Macro Monthly: Rate cuts and elections in focus 
As we start a new year, it looks set to be characterised by rate cuts and elections…[11 Jan] 
UK in Focus: Economy perking up? 
While UK GDP growth has been revised down for Q3 2023, from 0.0% q-o-q to -0.1%, opening...[2 Jan] 
Macro Monthly: Reasons for optimism 
Growth has proved resilient, and inflation has dropped…[8 Dec] 
Disclosure appendix 
Additional disclosures
1. This report is dated as at 27 November 2023.
2. All market data included in this report are dated as at close 27 November 2023, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report. 
3. HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research busine\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/market-outlook/uk-in-focus/2023-11/
########Top of main content 
Macro Monthly: Reasons for optimism 
8 Dec 2023
Key takeaways 
Growth has proved resilient, and inflation has dropped… 
…with markets looking for easing to come earlier. 
The downside risks for growth may be building, but there are some possible reasons for upside surprises, too. 
All things considered, the global economy has had a decent 2023. Growth has largely outperformed gloomy expectations at the beginning of the year, inflation has come down more quickly than many feared and labour markets are yet to show any significant cracks.
Subdued consumer confidence 
However, it’s not been the case for everyone, and pessimism remains rife. News flow continues to highlight recession risks, consumer confidence remains subdued (see Charts 2 and 3), and some households and businesses are clearly struggling.
Consumer sentiment remains subdued in developed markets 
Why is this? It’s a story of the haves and have nots – some households have faced a brutal cost of living squeeze in recent years, with higher food, energy and rental costs taking up a greater share of take-home pay. And despite inflation coming down towards central bank targets, these prices are not dropping – they’re just not rising as quickly. That makes people feel worse off, especially when the cost increases have been most evident in the essentials: food, fuel, and housing. For others, with elevated savings, stronger income growth or higher levels of wealth, the squeeze has been much smaller.
Source: Macrobond 
Source: Macrobond 
The global economy faces a number of challenges… 
Cautious outlook 
Where does that leave us going into 2024? The global economy still faces many challenges. With sentiment low, any shocks – particularly to the labour market – could see households tighten belts more quickly. The full impact of higher rates may hit more households and fiscal support could be withdrawn, meaning a broadening out of those who feel like the resilient economy has left them behind. The last leg down in inflation could be held up by negative supply shocks, including on food and energy prices.
…pushing interest rate expectations lower 
Some of these risks are being processed in the recent move lower in interest rates markets. Rate cuts in the first half of 2024 are being priced into many economies given these downside recession risks and some more promising data on inflation. We disagree, and think that stickiness in inflation will keep central banks on hold for longer.
Potential upside 
A trade recovery and China demand are upside risks 
This view also reflects some comfort on the growth side. Real wage growth may allow more people to feel better off, especially if food bills drop in the near term, supporting consumer spending. A recovery in global trade in H2 2024 seems likely, even if it’s largely a rebuild of inventories rather than stronger goods demand, and there are some potential upsides from a better recovery in mainland China (see Charts 3 and 4). A year ago, the world was full of doom and gloom – going into 2024, the data look a bit more balanced.
Source: Macrobond 
Source: Macrobond. 
Volatility in markets and economic data may continue 
That doesn’t mean that uncertainty is any lower. The wide range of outcomes in 2024 on the growth and inflation sides gives plenty of room for volatility in markets and the economic data. After three very busy years on the macro front, 2024 may be just as eventful.
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC ⬆ Positive surprise – actual is higher than consensus, ⬇ Negative surprise – actual is lower than consensus, ➡ Actual is in line with consensus 
Source: Refinitiv Eikon, HSBC 
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
Macro Monthly: Rate cuts and elections in focus 
As we start a new year, it looks set to be characterised by rate cuts and elections…[11 Jan] 
UK in Focus: UK Autumn Statement: Spent 
The UK Chancellor was able to announce lower borrowing,more headroom against targets, and...[8 Dec] 
UK in Focus: Economy perking up? 
While UK GDP growth has been revised down for Q3 2023, from 0.0% q-o-q to -0.1%, opening...[2 Jan] 
Disclosure appendix 
Additional disclosures
This report is dated as at 06 December 2023.
All market data included in this report are dated as at close 05 December 2023, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report.
HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research business. HSBC's analysts and its other staff who are involved in the preparation and dissemination of Research operate and have a management reporting line independent of HSBC's Investment Banking business. Information Barrier procedures are in place between the Investment Banking, Principal Trading, and Research businesses to ensure that any confidential and/or price sensitive information is handled in an appropriate manner.
You are not permitted to use, for reference, any data in this document for the purpose of (i) determining the interest payable, or other sums due, under loan agreements or under other financial contracts or instruments, (ii) determining the price at which a financial instrument may be bought or sold or traded or redeemed, or the value of a financial instrument, and/or (iii) measuring the performance of a financial instrument or of an investment fund.
Disclaimer 
This document is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document is distributed by HSBC Bank Canada, HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HSBC Continental Europe, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (127776-V) / HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (807705-X), The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, HSBC UK Bank plc, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch,\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/market-outlook/macro-monthly/2023-12/
########Top of main content 
Macro Monthly: Rate cuts and elections in focus 
11 Jan 2024
Key takeaways 
As we start a new year, it looks set to be characterised by rate cuts and elections… 
…with the timing and magnitude of policy easing set to be the focus of markets alongside political events… 
…and so tracking the macro data will be key in the months ahead. 
The global economy enjoyed a better-than-expected 2023, despite the huge shocks that continued to come – war in the Middle East, turmoil in the banking sector, and further geopolitical uncertainty, amongst many other things.
Solid consumer spending, global trade, and PMI data 
While growth held up better than expected, the pace wasn’t exactly stellar outside of the US and a handful of emerging market economies such as India, Saudi Arabia, Brazil, and Mexico. But, the last few sets of data for 2023 give some reason for hope, with solid consumer spending, some green shoots in global trade, and an upturn in some PMI data.
Inflation relief 
The drop in inflation was the big macro story of 2023 
The big macro story was the sharp fall in inflation across the world, particularly in the second half of the year (Charts 1 and 2). In the US, core personal consumption expenditures (PCE) inflation annualised over the past six months is now below the Federal Reserves’s 2% target, and we’ve seen sharp drops in inflation in Latin America be replicated in most of the world in recent months. Some of this is base effects in food and energy washing out of the data, but underlying inflationary pressures are abating as the unwinding of supply shocks from the pandemic continue to ripple through to pricing plans from firms.
Source: Refinitiv Datastream, HSBC 
Note: DM = Developed Markets, Latam = Latin America, CEEMEA = Central and Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, EM Asia = Emerging Markets Asia. Source: Refinitiv Datastream, HSBC 
Rate cuts and elections 
Two key themes for 2024 are rate cuts and elections 
As a result, 2024 looks set to be a year of two themes: rate cuts and elections. Central banks in most of the world are now expected to start easing in the coming months – with markets looking for developed market policymakers to shift to cuts slightly sooner than our own expectations. The developments in terms of labour markets, growth and inflation will be key in the coming releases to gauge when this may occur (Charts 3 and 4).
It’s also the biggest year for elections in history. More than half of the world’s population will see a major election this year, with the US election in November the one of most focus. But elections in the likes of India, South Africa, and (likely) the UK will grab attention at various points.
Note: BoJ = Bank of Japan, BoE = Bank of England, ECB = European Central Bank, Fed = Federal Reserve. Source: Macrobond 
Source: Macrobond 
Higher rates biting or disinflation reversing are the main risks 
Against this backdrop, it’s important to think about the risks. The main downside risk is the squeeze of higher rates hitting more corners of the global economy, or a reversal in the disinflationary process. But, to the upside, we now have positive real wage growth in most economies and employment is still growing, so we could see stronger consumer demand. Equally, housing markets and global trade look to be bottoming out, and if progress continues, growth could be lifted.2024 looks set to be another year of uncertainty.
Our GDP growth forecasts 
We tweaked up our 2024 global GDP forecast to 2.4% 
We recently edged up our global growth forecast to 2.4% (from 2.3%) in 2024, thanks to small upgrades to the US, China, and India while still seeing a subdued 0.6% pace across Western Europe and some strengthening in ASEAN. Among the other emerging economies we still think that, despite the growth upgrades we have made for 2023, the fastest pace of rate cuts will still be in Latin America given the still high level of real rates and declining inflation trend.
Our 2025 GDP forecast is virtually unchanged. We see global growth reviving a little – to 2.6% (from 2.4%) in 2024 – but only to a rate that is still below the pre-pandemic trend. Our central assumption is that the need for an ongoing disinflationary adjustment means only a gradual easing cycle in 2024-25 with only 150bp of rate cuts anticipated by the Federal Reserve and European Central Bank.
Note: *India data is calendar year forecast here for comparability. Previous forecasts are shown in parenthesis, and are from the Macro Monthly dated 11 October 2023. Green indicates an upward revision, red indicates a downward revision. Source: Bloomberg, HSBC Economics 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC ⬆ Positive surprise – actual is higher than consensus, ⬇ Negative surprise – actual is lower than consensus, ➡ Actual is in line with consensus 
Source: Refinitiv Eikon, HSBC 
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
Macro Monthly: Reasons for optimism 
Growth has proved resilient, and inflation has dropped…[8 Dec] 
UK in Focus: UK Autumn Statement: Spent 
The UK Chancellor was able to announce lower borrowing,more headroom against targets, and...[8 Dec] 
UK in Focus: Economy perking up? 
While UK GDP growth has been revised down for Q3 2023, from 0.0% q-o-q to -0.1%, opening...[2 Jan] 
Disclosure appendix 
Additional disclosures
1. This report is dated as at 11 January 2024.
2. All market data included in this report are dated as at close 10 January 2024, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report.
3. HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research business. HSBC's analysts and its other staff who are involved in the preparation and dissemination of Research operate and have a management reporting line independent of HSBC's Investment Banking business.Information Barrier procedures are in place between the Investment Banking, Principal Trading, and Research bus\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/market-outlook/macro-monthly/2024-01/
########Top of main content 
Why ESG Matters: COP28: Slow progress 
9 Jan 2024
The transition away from fossil fuels was mentioned for the first time in a climate Conference of the Parties (COP) at last year’s summit held in Dubai (COP28). While the call to raise ambition of climate pledges fell short, several encouraging declarations on energy and food were made, which if implemented, could yield positive outcomes. Despite some minor wins, we think the overall progress of many issues was slow as most effort was focused on the stocktake, an assessment of how much progress countries have made towards the Paris Agreement targets.
In this issue of #WhyESGMatters, we discuss the progress towards climate targets at COP28, highlight the key issues agreed and what they mean for investors, and what lies ahead in the global climate discussions.
Did you know? 
Source: Global Stocktake Decision, COP28 
1. More to do 
What is success? 
COP28 overran significantly as all efforts focused on bridging the divergent views on fossil fuels. After a key win on day one from the operationalisation of the Loss & Damage Fund (a fund set up to pay developing countries for their climate-related loss and damages), discussions stalled on many key issues. If the success of COP28 is determined by whether fossil fuels were mentioned in the text, then there was some success. However, when evaluating the progress of various other climate issues, the outcomes were rather underwhelming.
The beginning of the end 
After five drafts and a 36-hour debate, the global stocktake settled on “Transitioning away from fossil fuels in energy systems, in a just, orderly and equitable manner, accelerating action in this critical decade, so as to achieve net zero by 2050 in keeping with the science”. This recognises fossil fuels as the main cause of climate change, yet gives fossil fuels companies leeway to determine how and when they will take part in this transition. 
Lacking ambition 
The progression in ambition of climate pledges (due early 2025) was not strong. Previous statements were merely repeated without calling for a significant rise in ambition. Adaptation took a backseat at COP28 with a lack of financial support and a weak outcome for the Global Goal on Adaptation (which aims to enhance the world’s adaptive capacity to climate change) that only seemed to set broad collective goals. The support for vulnerable countries was lacking, and many Parties were left disappointed that those most responsible for climate change don’t seemingly have to pay the consequences.
Source: HSBC (based on UN Framework Convention on Climate Change, COP28 decisions) 
2. Summary of the key outcomes 
The key focus of this COP28 was on the Global Stocktake (GST) and the language pertaining to fossil fuels and their potential phase-out. There was an overwhelming sense of relief by many delegations that fossil fuels were mentioned. While this is an important decision, progress elsewhere was overshadowed, possibly overlooked in our view – by the push to get fossil fuels mentioned in the GST.
The first Global Stocktake of the Paris Agreement 
The main debate revolved around the inclusion and implementation of a “fossil fuel phase-out/down” within the GST, with various options being considered throughout the fortnight. The GST recognises the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 43% by 2030 and 60% by 2035 in order to limit warming to 1.5oC. However, it’s worth noting that there is no mention of a peak in emissions by 2025. The GST “calls on Parties to contribute to the following global efforts” by accelerating actions or using various tools, as shown below with our comments in red.
Source: Global Stocktake Decision, COP28 
Finance 
While there were various pledges to the Financial Mechanism, including Green Climate Fund, Global Environment Facility, Adaptation Fund, etc., not all of this finance is new and additional – with some subject to approval in domestic parliaments. In formal finance negotiations, discussion slargely stalled, with little progress to take forward. Indeed, we’re still left with the same ask for developed Parties to fulfill the annual climate finance target of USD100bn to support developing Parties.
The Loss & Damage Fund 
The Loss & Damage (L&D) Fund was swiftly passed on day one and will be designated as a Financial Mechanism of both the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and the Paris Agreement. 
There will be an annual “high-level dialogue” to review the effectiveness of the fund and discuss how it can be improved. The initial focus will be on “priority gaps within the current landscape of institutions” with further arrangements be approved at COP29 in 2024. Total pledged contribution as of the end of COP28 (according to the Presidency) is an estimated USD792m, although there is uncertainty as to ongoing commitment to the Fund. There were many comments from Parties that the funding is significantly short of what is required, although it’s a start.
Mitigation 
The Mitigation Work Programme (MWP) progressed slowly, mainly because negotiators were awaiting the outcome of the GST. Many wanted to use the MWP to scale up ambition, but others just used it as a placeholder – not wanting new targets (at odds with the GST). The MWP is supposed to last until COP 31 in 2026; however but after two weeks of discussion, there was little progress, except a recalling of previous views and encouraging the submission of new views. For example, the final decision even removed the previous text of “highlights the importance of accelerating the just energy transition”. 
Adaptation 
Adaptation didn’t seem to get the attention that the most vulnerable Parties were looking for. Many delegates were not impressed with the report of the Adaptation Committee, stating that it didn’t engage enough with the science, while discussions didn’t really address the upcoming limits to adaptation (as per Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change).
The disc\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/esg/why-esg-matters/2024-01-09/
########Top of main content 
UK in Focus: Economy perking up? 
2 Jan 2024
Key takeaways 
While UK GDP growth has been revised down for Q3 2023, from 0.0% q-o-q to -0.1%, opening up the possibility of a recession… 
…the news since then has been better, with PMIs, consumer confidence and the housing market perking up in Q4. 
We do not expect the first BoE rate cut until August 2024, but with inflation now falling fast, we do see risks of sooner cuts. 
UK data review (Nov/Dec 2023)
GDP growth for Q3 has been revised down from 0.0% q-o-q to -0.1% q-o-q. This puts the UK at risk of a technical recession, if another negative quarter follows in Q4. The UK economy has been struggling under the weight of higher costs and higher interest rates. But much of the data for Q4 so far has been more positive, with positive retail sales numbers in November adding to lower inflation, rising real wages, stronger services PMI, and housing market indicators. We see this as a good omen for the UK, as lower inflation should translate to a real income recovery, followed by rate cuts (we see the Bank of England [BoE] cutting in August, followed by about 25 basis points of easing per quarter, taking Bank Rate to 3.75% by end-2025).
UK CPI inflation fell much more sharply than expected in November, from 4.6% to 3.9% y-o-y (consensus 4.3%). While that is still almost double the Bank of England’s 2% inflation target, it represents the lowest headline rate since September 2021. The downside surprise was driven by a sharp drop in core CPI inflation, which fell from 5.7% to 5.1% y-o-y (consensus 5.6%).
The BoE’s Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) voted 6-3 to keep Bank Rate on hold at 5.25% during their December meeting. Despite falls in inflation and wage growth, and much more dovish market expectations, the minutes maintained the guidance from last time, calling the decision on whether to hike “finely balanced” and warning that rates might need to rise again. The MPC also repeated that monetary policy would need to be “sufficiently restrictive for sufficiently long” to return inflation to target.
Total pay growth slowed from an upwardly revised 8.0% in the three months to September, to 7.2% in October (consensus: 7.6%). For regular pay, the rate slowed from 7.8% (also upwardly revised) to 7.3% (consensus: 7.4%). There are three drivers of this fall: (a) the reversal of last month’s major upside surprise to bonuses; (b) base effects from high pay growth this time last year; and (c) a m-o-m fall in regular pay – the first since April 2020. The decline was driven by private sector regular pay, which fell on the month, taking growth from 7.9% to 7.3%. Within that, financial services and construction saw sequential declines.
Economy perking up? 
PMIs, consumer confidence and the housing market have perked up 
We are feeling a little more optimistic about the UK economy. Of course, the political situation is still noisy and uncertain, the cost of living is still heightened and the impact of monetary tightening has further to run. But with inflation lower and rate cuts now expected to come earlier – we expect the first Bank of England cut in August 2024, kicking off a path of 25bps of rate cuts per quarter (we see the first Fed and ECB rate cuts in June) – the signs are a little more upbeat than they had been. The PMIs have perked up (see Chart 1) – with the services print pushing further into growth territory in December 2023 – and so have consumer confidence and the housing market.
Higher real incomes to support consumption 
Meanwhile, the Autumn Statement news was hardly a gamechanger, but the tax cuts and uplifts to benefits and pensions add support to real incomes. We think the latter will rise by 0.5% in 2024 and then 1.6% in 2025, supporting some consumption growth even as more households see their income hit by higher mortgage payments. Still, with a third of the mortgage book rolling over every year, we think it’s fair to say that around half of all fixed rate mortgages have already moved onto higher rates in the last eighteen months. And while the economy has stagnated and consumption fell in Q3 2023, the macroeconomic implications have not been too bad. Mortgage arrears are up, but to a still-low level.
We forecast 0.7% GDP growth in 2024… 
We are not claiming that the UK economy is going to shoot the lights out in 2024. But we think recession risks have receded, and we recently revised up our growth forecasts slightly: from 0.5% to 0.7% in 2024, and from 0.9% to 1.0% in 2025. (We left our 2023 forecast unchanged at 0.5%.) We also revised down our unemployment forecasts, though we do see a gradual climb over our forecast period from the current rate of 4.2% to 5.0% at the end of 2024 and 5.4% at the end of 2025.
…and core inflation of c3% throughout 2024; We expect the first rate cut in August 2024 
This loosening of the labour market will gradually reduce pay growth and services inflation, both of which have already peaked, in our view. True, government policy will go some way to offsetting the slowdown: another 10% rise in the National Living wage in April and the new migrant salary threshold, which has risen by 48%, will apply from the Spring. But we recently revised down our wage growth and CPI inflation forecasts, with the latter also reflecting receding core pressures and another anticipated drop in household energy bills in April. Against this backdrop, we now expect CPI and core CPI to fall below 2% and 3%, respectively, next spring.
Source: S&P Global, Macrobond 
Source: BoE 
Source: Refinitiv Eikon 
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
Macro Monthly: Rate cuts and elections in focus 
As we start a new year, it looks set to be characterised by rate cuts and elections…[11 Jan] 
Macro Monthly: Reasons for optimism 
Growth has proved resilient, and inflation has dropped…[8 Dec] 
UK in Focus: UK Autumn Statement: Spent 
The UK Chancellor was able to announce lower borrowing,more headroom against\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/market-outlook/uk-in-focus/2023-12/
########Top of main content 
Learning about ESG: Progressing ESG adoption in Asia 
7 Dec 2023
Travis Tucker，CFA
HSBC Asset Management Research & Insights Senior Manager
Geoffrey Lunt
HSBC Asset Management, Head of Asia Investment Specialists
Key takeaways 
The scarcity of ESG investment products and fragmented data across the region have hindered widespread adoption of ESG principles in Asia. 
However, there’s a positive shift taking place as the region moves towards implementing ESG disclosure and transparency requirements. 
This development should only make the region more appealing to global investors pursuing the opportunity of higher yields amidst stable and deepening credit markets. 
Learning About ESG is an educational series that connects environmental, social and governance topics with investing.
Join us each issue to see how global developments can have implications for investors. The better we understand ESG, the bigger the role it can play in our everyday lives – and investment portfolios – contributing to a better world.
Why has ESG adoption in Asia been sluggish? 
While awareness and adoption are on the rise, up to now Asia hasn’t displayed the same degree of regulatory emphasis on ESG integration as Europe, and to a lesser extent, the US. 
The scarcity of available ESG investment products in the region acts as a deterrent to a broader audience of investors, limiting their ability to invest in line with sustainable principles. The fragmentation of ESG data and disclosure practices across Asia further compounds the challenges, with a clear distinction between developed and emerging markets in the region. In particular, financial hubs like Singapore and Hong Kong are making strides toward aligning with European regulatory and corporate disclosure standards.
The absence of consistent company disclosures in emerging Asia poses a significant hurdle to ESG adoption. Due to a lack of standardised rules across countries, inconsistencies impede investors' ability to assess ESG factors. In this context, regulators in Asia have a crucial role to play in introducing consistent policies.
Asia faces diverse yet significant sustainability-related risks. For instance, the region is highly vulnerable to physical risks induced by climate change. However, much of developing Asia currently prioritises economic growth heavily reliant on natural resources and carbon-intensive industries, such as manufacturing – primarily due to outsourcing from developed markets. This results in a continually expanding carbon footprint that hinders their transition to a low-carbon economy, as shown in the chart below.
There’s a clear need to drive sustainable economic development over the long term, supporting the expectation for greater adoption of ESG practices and disclosure in the coming years.
Despite the substantial challenges faced in Asia, there are two main reasons for optimism: a growing demand for responsible investment opportunities and increasing regulatory support. This is evidenced by a twofold increase in the number of ESG policies from 2016 to 2021.1Footnote link 1
Source: Emissions Database for Global Atmospheric Research 2023 
Are there signs of a shift towards prioritising sustainability in Asia? 
Significant progress has been made. For instance, Asia crossed the USD1 trillion milestone in the impact bond market in Q2 2023, accounting for roughly a quarter of global cumulative issuance of green, social, and sustainability-linked bonds.2Footnote link 2 
Importantly, bond markets offer more direct influence over the allocation of capital, compared to equity markets where investors are trading secondary securities. This, coupled with the massive need for funding of sustainable projects, has contributed to the remarkable growth of the sustainable bond market. Following a decline in issuance since the beginning of 2022, owing to rising interest rates and heightened market volatility, the market in Asia exhibited a robust recovery in the first half of this year.
While green bonds continue to dominate, comprising around 66% of bonds focused on ESG priorities, there has been a notable surge in social and sustainability bonds as well.3Footnote link 3 The scale of funding required for Asia’s transition to a net zero economy, estimated at around USD30 trillion by 2050, supports expectations for significant growth ahead in sustainable bond issuance.
Beyond the expansion of sustainable bonds, the growth in ESG products in Asia is being catalysed by emerging ESG-fund labelling requirements. These requirements mandate that asset managers disclose how ESG factors are integrated into the investment process. Tighter regulations for corporate-level ESG disclosures and product-level transparency can greatly enhance corporate governance and market stability, while providing investors with better information to mitigate risks. In fact, companies in Asia that are aligned with the EU taxonomy have expanded their sector relative price premiums to 55% versus earnings, surpassing the global average of 37%.4Footnote link 4 Moreover, there has been increasing support in Asia for disclosures recommended by the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosures, with almost half of 3,400 global supporters being Asian organisations.5Footnote link 5
In fast-growing India, whose development is increasingly attracting international investors, the Securities and Exchange Board has mandated Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR) for listed companies to disclose ESG risks. These steps are clear indications of the progress being made in ESG disclosure and transparency in the region.
Source: Refinitiv, HSBC Asset Management. November 2023 
Why has India warranted investors’ attention recently? 
In 2023, India forayed into the sovereign green bond market, initiating two substantial USD1 billion local currency deals with plans for an additional USD2.2 billion equivalent issuance, aimed at mobilising resources for green \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/esg/learning-about-esg/progressing-esg-adoption-in-asia/
########Top of main content 
Learning about ESG : Why batteries are key to the green transformation 
6 Oct 2023
Travis Tucker
HSBC Asset Management Research & Insights Senior Manager
Ed Conroy
HSBC Asset Management Head of Active Equity Research
Key takeaways 
Recent US and EU policy initiatives highlight the importance of battery technology, emphasising its strategic significance in a fragmented world. 
Battery technology is crucial for widespread adoption of electric vehicles and renewable energy. Significant investment in recent years has driven declining battery costs, supporting adoption growth. 
The green transformation offers diverse investment prospects. From battery advancement to clean energy, investors can contribute to and benefit from the green transition, driving positive environmental change. 
Learning About ESG is an educational series that connects environmental, social and governance topics with investing.
Join us each issue to see how global developments can have implications for investors. The better we understand ESG, the bigger the role it can play in our everyday lives – and investment portfolios – contributing to a better world.
Why do batteries matter for a green transformation? 
A proliferation of rooftop solar panels harnessing the sun’s energy, wind farms powering electricity grids, or electric vehicles transporting us to and from are all dependent on battery technology to efficiently store ever-growing amounts of power. 
Recent policy initiatives from the US and EU underscore the importance of batteries. Both the US Inflation Reduction Act and EU Net Zero Industry Act include strong commitments to boost investment and self-sufficiency in battery technologies.
This comes amidst a more fragmented world, where competition has been overcoming global cooperation. Consequently, local battery capacity has emerged as an area of strategic importance as global powers prioritise resilient infrastructure and accessibility of key resources. The investment required is significant, with roughly USD165 billion of capital expenditure estimated to be needed in the EU and US to localise battery supply chains1Footnote link 1 - an area that China currently dominates, per the chart below.
Lithium batteries are typically associated with electric vehicles (EVs), with efforts to extend mileage per charge supporting mass adoption. Yet, their use extends across the spectrum of green infrastructure, also being vital to greater adoption of renewable energy. Since renewables generate power intermittently, more reliance on them requires greater ability to store the power generated.
The chart below shows the declining costs of green infrastructure as investment has picked up. Clearly, none has been as pronounced as the drop in EV battery costs. Driven by the surge in adoption, investment in EVs has grown at an average annual rate of over 50% since 2015. In conjunction, investment in battery storage technology has likewise grown by 50% per year over this time2Footnote link 2.
Source: HSBC Asset Management, International Energy Agency, May 2023. Figure for 2025 and 2030 is projected. 
Source: HSBC Asset Management, International Energy Agency, May 2023. 
What should investors expect in the years ahead? 
While much of the investor attention on electric vehicles focuses on vehicle manufacturers, the underlying supply chain is where we expect significant change and opportunity to come. 
${footnote}The attention on electric vehicles has been warranted, given a remarkable surge in demand that’s projected to increase by over one-third this year, following a record-breaking 20223Footnote link 3. With the growing scale and investment, EV battery costs have declined by over two-thirds in less than a decade. BloombergNEF’s Electric Vehicle Outlook predicts EVs will constitute nearly 60% of global passenger car sales by 2024. This will be facilitated by a projected fourfold increase in lithium-ion battery manufacturing capacity by 2030, led by China.
While China’s battery capacity expansion could lead to a global surplus over the next decade, ex-China battery supply should remain tight through the middle of this decade due to the combination of low existing capacities and fast demand growth. As EV demand picks up more broadly in the EU, US, India and other markets, China’s share in global EV battery demand is set to decline from roughly 60% currently to around 30% by 2030.
Given ambitious regulatory targets supporting electrification, Europe may become the new leader in EV penetration before the end of this decade. In the US, where penetration is currently lower, EV battery demand is expected to grow at a compound annual growth rate of 30%, gradually catching up with China by around 2030.
Projections suggest that the EU and US could achieve localised supply in battery cell manufacturing by 2027. ‘Home grown’ companies in the US should be particular beneficiaries from the changing regulation to support local manufacturing, while Korean battery makers should benefit from efforts aimed at reducing reliance on supply from China. 
Source: Precedence Research, December 2022. 
What are key long-term implications? 
Both the US and Europe have recognised the importance of recycling to alleviate battery materials shortages through their policy directives. Domestic recycling companies will play a pivotal role in localising the battery supply chain – helping the shift towards a more circular economy described in prior articles. 
Achieving battery self-sufficiency poses specific challenges that need to be addressed, including:
Limited access to natural resources such as lithium reserves, which despite recent discoveries in the US, are for now highly concentrated in a few countries such as Australia, Chile and China. 
Lengthy project lead times of up to seven years to localise various parts of the supply chain. 
Higher costs associated with manufacturing outside of China. 
Developing a local labour force with the requisite s\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/esg/learning-about-esg/why-batteries-are-key-to-the-green-transformation/
########Top of main content 
Why ESG Matters: How sustainable is your morning coffee? 
6 Oct 2023
Climate change poses a significant threat to coffee production as suitable land for cultivation diminishes, and bean quality and yields decline. Meanwhile, the coffee industry faces mounting pressure for transparency within its supply chain, with technology emerging as a key enabler. Investors are waking up to social risks, consumer preferences and future developments to improve the industry’s sustainability.
In this issue of #WhyESGMatters, we discuss the importance and methods of achieving more sustainable coffee production, highlighting the role of technology in enhancing supply chain transparency. 
Did you know? 
Source: IPCC, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Food Agriculture Organisation, World Economic Forum, HSBC 
1. Starting from the ground 
What is brewing
From home to popular coffeehouses, coffee lovers across the globe consume over 400bn cups of coffee every year. Nearly 10bn tonnes of coffee is produced annually, primarily concentrated in regions known as the “Coffee Belt”, with the top five producers - Brazil, Vietnam, Colombia, Indonesia and Ethiopia - accounting for over 70% of global production.
Remarkably, small-scale farmers contribute to about 80% of the world’s coffee production, supporting the livelihoods of approximately 125m people. But this popular drink could be at risk. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) predicts a decline in suitable areas for coffee cultivation by 2050. This is supported by several studies indicating that rising temperatures encourage the proliferation of coffee plant pests and diseases, putting the industry in jeopardy.
Headed for trouble
Rising temperature and changing rainfall patterns pose several threats to coffee plantation: 
Reduced crop yields: Coffee plants are sensitive to temperature fluctuations, and prolonged heatwaves can hinder their growth and productivity. Arabica and Robusta are the two primary species of coffee cultivated globally. Robusta is relatively less sensitive to heat (but more vulnerable to drought), while temperature plays a crucial role in the development and maturation of Arabica coffee. Arabica plants thrive in the temperature range of 18-21°C, but continuous exposure to temperatures above 30°C can damage them, resulting in decreased yields and compromised bean quality. 
The temperature in key coffee-producing regions has already been increasing. For instance, Brazil, the top producer of Arabica, has experienced an increase of 1.16°C in annual mean temperature between 1971 and 2021. A recent study published in the journal PLOS Climate revealed that the sub-optimal conditions for coffee yield have increased since 1980. The last decade was found to be more acute with five of the six most hazardous years occurring since 2010.
Shifts in suitable growing regions: The IPCC projects a decline of 38-89% in the Central American coffee-growing area by 2050 due to changing temperature and rainfall patterns, as well as the minimum altitude for cultivation to raise from 2,000 feet above sea level to 3,300 feet.1Footnote link 1 A recent study published in the journal PLOS One modelled how growing conditions for three popular foods—coffee, cashews and avocados—will change by 2050, and found coffee is particularly vulnerable, with a projected decline of 50% in the number of regions most highly suited for coffee cultivation.2Footnote link 2 
Increased pest and disease outbreaks: Warmer temperatures create a more favourable environment for pests and diseases that can ravage coffee plants. Coffee leaf rust, a devastating fungal disease, has already caused significant damage in Central and South America. The coffee rust epidemic in Colombia, which occurred from 2008 to 2011, reduced production by 31% on average when compared to 2007.3Footnote link 3 
The bitter notes
While rising temperature is known to brew trouble for coffee production, the cultivation of coffee is linked to deforestation, further exacerbating climate change. Vast areas of tropical forests are often cleared to meet the growing demand for coffee and create optimal growing conditions. Per the World Resources Institute (WRI), nearly 2m hectares of forest were replaced by coffee plantation between 2001 and 2015. There’re two methods of coffee cultivation: shade-grown (agroforestry system) which is environmentally sustainable, and sun-grown which involves forest clearing and depletes soil nutrients.
In many countries, the coffee industry has already transitioned to full-sun production to meet the growing demand. This shift is partly driven by the commonly held assumption that fungal infections are limited by sun exposure, as well as by the financial appeal it offers. Additionally, shade-providing leguminous tree species have been found to compete with coffee plants for soil and water during severe drought, resulting in mortality of coffee plantation. Stuck in a vicious cycle, deforestation due to coffee plantations not only reduces carbon sinks but also eliminates critical habitats, exacerbating biodiversity loss and climate change.

Water and energy consumption
Coffee production also requires substantial amounts of water across its lifecycle, affecting local communities and ecosystems in water-stressed regions. According to the Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), a cup of coffee requires 140 litres of water to grow. 4Footnote link 4From roasting to brewing, the coffee supply chain guzzles energy, adding to its carbon footprint.
To address these pressing issues, various adaptation measures and sustainable solutions are being implemented. For instance, regenerative agriculture through intercropping helps improve the quality and biodiversity of soil which is beneficial for coffee yield and quality. It also aids in long-term security for farmers who are among the most vulnerable to climate risk, by diversifying outputs and income.
A seven-year \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/esg/why-esg-matters/how-sustainable-is-your-morning-coffee/
########Top of main content 
FX Viewpoint Flash: USD: Fed Chair Powell talks down the prospect of a March cut 
2 Feb 2024
Key takeaways 
The FOMC held rates steady for a fourth straight meeting, as widely expected, showing that it is in no rush to reduce rates. 
The Fed chair also talked down the prospects of a March cut;our economists still expect the first Fed cut in June. 
We see modest USD strength over the medium term. 
The Fed keeps rates steady for a fourth straight meeting, as widely expected 
In its first meeting of 2024, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) unanimously voted to keep the federal funds target range at 5.25-5.50% unchanged for a fourth straight meeting, as widely expected. The January FOMC meeting contained some changes in guidance in the accompanying statement, which were then echoed in the Federal Reserve (Fed) Chair Jerome Powell’s press conference. The US economy was described as “expanding at a solid pace”, rather than slowing “from its strong pace in the third quarter.” Importantly, the statement said the Fed does not expect to cut rates “until it has gained greater confidence that inflation is moving sustainably toward 2%.” This was a challenge to the market’s view that the March FOMC is a finely balanced outcome and the USD duly bounced back from some pre-meeting weakness.
The Fed is looking to see if the last six months of good inflation data will continue 
Much of Fed Chair Powell’s press confidence was devoted to the question about what it would take for policymakers to attain greater confidence on the outlook for inflation. Powell explained that the last six months of inflation data had been favourable but that some policymakers remained uncertain about whether these data were sending “a true signal” about the inflation outlook. The next release of Personal Consumption Expenditures Price Index, commonly known as PCE inflation data, is scheduled for 29 February, and this will be preceded by consumer price index (CPI) data on 13 February and producer price index (PPI) data on 16 February.
Fed Chair Powell says an interest rate cut in March is unlikely 
More importantly, Powell said that “I don’t think it is likely that the Committee will reach a level of confidence by the time of the March meeting” that it will be time to cut rates. The US Dollar Index (DXY) rallied to 103.7 overnight on the back of that key observation, before paring some gains this morning (Bloomberg, 1 February 2024 8:30 am HKT).
Our economists still expect the first Fed cut in June vs a May cut priced by the rates markets 
The rate markets currently expect a 37% chance of a 25bp rate cut in March, with a May cut fully priced in (Bloomberg, 1 February 2024 8:30 am HKT). Our economists continue to expect the first Fed cut in June, with 75bp of cumulative rate reduction in 2024, followed by an additional 75bp of rate cuts in 2025. The federal funds target range is expected to be 3.75-4.00% by the end of 2025.
We expect the USD to strengthen modestly over the medium term 
Our medium-term expectation remains one of modest USD strength, notably against the EUR and GBP. This is based on the US economy’s continued outperformance against many of the other G10 economies, and US bond yields remaining higher than those in most other G10 economies. In addition, we do not expect the collective easing among G10 central banks to match dovish market expectations. A less aggressive easing path could see risk appetite falter, supporting the USD. Finally, should other G10 central banks pivot, their currencies are likely to face downward pressure.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
FX Viewpoint: JPY and CAD: Sideways, followed by modest strength 
On 23 January, the BoJ stayed on hold, continuing to expect core inflation to fall below...[29 Jan] 
FX Trends: Markets to realise a shallower easing path 
Market thoughts of a shallower global easing cycle should support the ‘safe-haven’ USD…[19 Jan] 
Disclosure appendix 
Important disclosures
This document is for information purposes only and it should not be regarded as an offer to sell or as a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or other investment products mentioned in it and/or to participate in any trading strategy. Information in this document is general and should not be construed as personal advice, given it has been prepared without taking account of the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular investor. Accordingly, investors should, before acting on it, consider the appropriateness of the information, having regard to their objectives, financial situation and needs. If necessary, seek professional investment and tax advice.
Certain investment products mentioned in this document may not be eligible for sale in some states or countries, and they may not be suitable for all types of investors. Investors should consult with their HSBC representative regarding the suitability of the investment products mentioned in this document and take into account their specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs before making a commitment to purchase investment products.
The value of and the income produced by the investment products mentioned in this document may fluctuate, so that an investor may get back less than originally invested. Certain high-volatility investments can be subject to sudden and large falls in value.
that could equal or exceed the amount invested. Value and income from investment products may be adversely affected by exchange rates, interest rates, or other factors. Past performance of a particular investment product is not indicative of future results.
HSBC and its affiliates will from time to time sell to and buy from customers the securities/instruments (including derivatives) of companies covered in HSBC Research on a principal or agency basis.
Whether, or in what time frame, an update of this analysis will be published is not determined in advance.
Additional d\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/fx-insights/fx-viewpoint/flash-2024-02-02/
########Top of main content 
FX Viewpoint: EUR and GBP: Modest downside ahead 
26 Feb 2024
Key takeaways 
The ECB and BoE are likely to pivot more explicitly towards policy easing in the months ahead. 
Rate cut cycles, unsurprisingly, tend to be modestly negative for the EUR and GBP. 
…but the degree of FX weakness depends on the nature of rate cuts and the external environment. 
The ECB and BoE are likely to be more explicit about policy easing in the months ahead 
With the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Bank of England (BoE) likely to pivot towards a rate-cut stance in the months ahead, we take a brief look at how past rate-cut cycles by both central banks have affected their currencies. We consider cycles since the late 1990s (coinciding with the ECB’s formation and BoE’s independence), and do not include one-off rate cuts.
We have three key takeaways:
1. Rate-cut cycles tend to be FX negative: This is not a surprising finding. On average, EUR-USD dropped 5.2% during these cycles, and GBP-USD dropped even more than EUR-USD. However, these average FX performances were dragged down significantly by the moves in the 2008-09 global financial crisis.
2. Idiosyncratic rate cuts have the biggest negative impact: The EUR fell aggressively during the mid-2010s cycles, driven by a mix of weak local economic dynamics and sovereign debt concerns.
3. External environment matters: The EUR and GBP could hold up a bit better when either the Federal Reserve (Fed) is cutting more and faster, or global equities are rising – providing a ‘risk on’ lift.
Source: HSBC 
In the rate-cut cycles in 2024,we see modest downside risks for the EUR and GBP 

Within this context, we expect the start of the rate-cut cycles in 2024 to be mildly negative for both EUR and GBP, even if markets have currently priced in rate cuts, as they had been in previous cycles. Our economists expect the first rate cut from the Fed and the ECB in June, while August is more likely for the BoE. Neither the ECB nor the BoE is likely to deliver idiosyncratic rate cuts, but both could end up with a more dovish cycle than the Fed, weighing on their currencies. At the same time, the global economy is expected to slow this year, so risk sentiment is unlikely to improve significantly. As such, support for both currencies is set to be limited. The EUR and GBP are also still stronger than what their rate dynamics imply. Given the circumstances, we expect both the EUR and GBP to weaken modestly against the USD in 2024.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Read the full report 
Related Insights 
FX Viewpoint: The Fed, ECB, and BoE: Rate cuts on the horizon… 
The Fed, ECB, and BoE started 2024 by keeping interest rates unchanged, but set the stage...[5 Feb] 
FX Viewpoint Flash: USD: Fed Chair Powell talks down the prospect of a March cut 
The FOMC held rates steady for a fourth straight meeting, as widely expected, showing that...[2 Feb] 
FX Trends: Markets to realise a shallower easing path 
Market thoughts of a shallower global easing cycle should support the ‘safe-haven’ USD…[19 Jan] 
Disclosure appendix 
Important disclosures
This document is for information purposes only and it should not be regarded as an offer to sell or as a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or other investment products mentioned in it and/or to participate in any trading strategy. Information in this document is general and should not be construed as personal advice, given it has been prepared without taking account of the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular investor. Accordingly, investors should, before acting on it, consider the appropriateness of the information, having regard to their objectives, financial situation and needs. If necessary, seek professional investment and tax advice.
Certain investment products mentioned in this document may not be eligible for sale in some states or countries, and they may not be suitable for all types of investors. Investors should consult with their HSBC representative regarding the suitability of the investment products mentioned in this document and take into account their specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs before making a commitment to purchase investment products.
The value of and the income produced by the investment products mentioned in this document may fluctuate, so that an investor may get back less than originally invested. Certain high-volatility investments can be subject to sudden and large falls in value.
that could equal or exceed the amount invested. Value and income from investment products may be adversely affected by exchange rates, interest rates, or other factors. Past performance of a particular investment product is not indicative of future results.
HSBC and its affiliates will from time to time sell to and buy from customers the securities/instruments (including derivatives) of companies covered in HSBC Research on a principal or agency basis.
Whether, or in what time frame, an update of this analysis will be published is not determined in advance.
Additional disclosures
1. This report is dated as at 23 February 2024.
2. All market data included in this report are dated as at close 22 February 2024, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report.
3. HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research business. HSBC's analysts and its other staff who are involved in the preparation and dissemination of Research operate and have a management reporting line independent of HSBC's Investment Banking business. Information Barrier procedures are in place between the Investment Banking, Principal Trading, and Research businesses to ensure that any confidential and/or price sensitive information is handled in an appropriate manner.
4. You are not permitted to use, for reference, any data in this document for the purpose of (i) de\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/fx-insights/fx-viewpoint/2024-02-26/
########Top of main content 
FX Viewpoint: The Fed, ECB, and BoE: Rate cuts on the horizon… 
5 Feb 2024
Key takeaways 
The Fed, ECB, and BoE started 2024 by keeping interest rates unchanged, but set the stage for rate cuts 
Our economists expect the Fed and ECB to start easing in June, followed by the BoE in August 
The USD is likely to strengthen modestly against the EUR and GBP over the medium term, in our view 
The Fed is unlikely to deliver its first rate cut in March 
The Federal Reserve (Fed), the European Central Bank (ECB), and the Bank of England (BoE) all kept rates steady at their first policy meetings in 2024 (Chart 1), as widely expected. While they set the stage for rate cuts later this year, there were some differences in tone. The Fed is looking to see if the last six months of good inflation data will continue, while signalling that an interest rate cut in March is unlikely (see USD: Fed Chair Powell talks down the prospect of a March cut for details). Our economists still expect the first Fed rate cut in June.
The ECB’s pushback against market rate cut expectations was not that forceful 
The ECB stated that there was “broad consensus” that it was premature to discuss policy rate cuts at the January meeting; but there is no doubt it is moving toward them. ECB President Christine Lagarde pushed back a bit against market expectations, noting that policymakers wanted to wait for more data and be further along the disinflation process; however, it was not a particularly forceful pushback. In our economists’ view, April is a ‘live’ meeting, while June is the more likely time for the first ECB cut.
The BoE is still looking for more evidence before rates can be cut 
The BoE’s guidance dropped references to further tightening, but it appears in no hurry to deliver a rate cut. The vote behind the status quo decision was a three-way split, with six members voting for a hold, two for a 25bp hike, and one for a 25bp cut. Our economists expect the first BoE rate cut to come in August, followed by one 25bp reduction per quarter, taking the policy rate to 3.75% by end- 2025.
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
The USD is likely to strengthen modestly against the EUR and GBP over the medium term 
Market repricing of a less aggressive global easing path has seen the USD outperform in the G10 space so far this year (Bloomberg, 1 February 2024). Geopolitical uncertainty might also provide support to the ‘safe haven’ USD in the weeks and months ahead. Over the medium term, we expect the USD to strengthen modestly against the EUR and GBP, amid the US economy’s continued outperformance against the Eurozone and the UK (Chart 2). The USD could also be supported by its ongoing yield advantage.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
FX Viewpoint Flash: USD: Fed Chair Powell talks down the prospect of a March cut 
The FOMC held rates steady for a fourth straight meeting, as widely expected, showing that...[2 Feb] 
FX Viewpoint: JPY and CAD: Sideways, followed by modest strength 
On 23 January, the BoJ stayed on hold, continuing to expect core inflation to fall below...[29 Jan] 
FX Viewpoint: USD: A strong start to the year 
A strong start to the year for the USD is set to continue…[22 Jan] 
FX Trends: Markets to realise a shallower easing path 
Market thoughts of a shallower global easing cycle should support the ‘safe-haven’ USD…[19 Jan] 
Disclosure appendix 
Important disclosures
This document is for information purposes only and it should not be regarded as an offer to sell or as a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or other investment products mentioned in it and/or to participate in any trading strategy. Information in this document is general and should not be construed as personal advice, given it has been prepared without taking account of the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular investor. Accordingly, investors should, before acting on it, consider the appropriateness of the information, having regard to their objectives, financial situation and needs. If necessary, seek professional investment and tax advice.
Certain investment products mentioned in this document may not be eligible for sale in some states or countries, and they may not be suitable for all types of investors. Investors should consult with their HSBC representative regarding the suitability of the investment products mentioned in this document and take into account their specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs before making a commitment to purchase investment products.
The value of and the income produced by the investment products mentioned in this document may fluctuate, so that an investor may get back less than originally invested. Certain high-volatility investments can be subject to sudden and large falls in value.
that could equal or exceed the amount invested. Value and income from investment products may be adversely affected by exchange rates, interest rates, or other factors. Past performance of a particular investment product is not indicative of future results.
HSBC and its affiliates will from time to time sell to and buy from customers the securities/instruments (including derivatives) of companies covered in HSBC Research on a principal or agency basis.
Whether, or in what time frame, an update of this analysis will be published is not determined in advance.
Additional disclosures
1. This report is dated as at 02 February 2024.
2. All market data included in this report are dated as at close 01 February 2024, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report.
3. HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research business. HSBC's analysts and its other staff who are involved in the preparation and dissemination of Research operate and have a management reporting line independent of HSBC's Investment Banki\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/fx-insights/fx-viewpoint/2024-02-05/
########Top of main content 
Investment Weekly: Bonds are back (in emerging markets) 
26 Feb 2024
Key takeaways 
Since mid-January, markets have scaled back expectations for Western central bank policy easing. This is most evident for the US Fed, reflecting stronger than expected growth, labour and inflation data. 
It has been a disappointing start to 2024 for listed real estate investment trusts (REITs) – publicly traded companies that own or operate predominantly income-producing properties. A pick-up in bond yields has been a major culprit behind the drawdown given the interest-rate sensitive nature of the sector. 
A recent theme in global equities has been the growing concentration of the S&P 500 in a few mega-cap names that have captured the imagination of investors. But this isn’t just a US phenomenon –concentration in European equity markets is significantly higher. 
Chart of the week – Bonds are back (in emerging markets) 
The investment opportunity arises from EM central banks tightening monetary policy well before the Fed and the ECB. Proactive EM central bankers then created a valuation buffer for their bond markets to weather the fastest global tightening of financial conditions since the 1980s. Recent analysis by the IMF has reflected on how this policy strategy, plus country-specific structural reforms, has materially improved the risk behaviour of the asset class.
Several EM central banks – notably those in Latin America – have started cutting rates already. And many EM bond markets still have materially higher nominal and real yields than the US. Some markets – in particular, India, Mexico and Indonesia – really stand out (see chart).
The near-term path for EM could yet be choppy. But the argument for strong medium-term performance is backed up by solid fundamentals – strong growth and buffers against external pressures, and improved policy credibility – as well as cheap valuations.
Market Spotlight 
China ramps up policy action 
A new, multi-polar world with increased geopolitical conflict continues to play out. Technological competition is part of this, as evidenced by recent US restrictions on chip exports to China that would support development in AI and other technologies with potential military applications.
Being increasingly dependent on productivity growth to drive the economy amid a shrinking population, technological advancement is as vital for China as any. As of now, advancement continues to be achieved - exports reflect a significant shift to technologies key to the global energy transition. Rapid scaling in the production of electric vehicles, for instance, has catapulted the country past Korea, Germany and Japan to become the largest exporter of passenger cars. Accordingly, China’s share of total exports globally remains close to its 2020 peak of 17%.
The realignment of supply chains in today’s multi-polar world is certainly benefitting other markets, such as India, but fears over China’s progress should not be overdone.
The value of investments and any income from them can go down as well as up and investors may not get back the amount originally invested. Past performance does not predict future returns. The level of yield is not guaranteed and may rise or fall in the future.
Source: HSBC Asset Management. Macrobond, Bloomberg. Data as at 11am UK time 23 February 2024.
Lens on… 
Higher for longer - part II 
Since mid-January, markets have scaled back expectations for Western central bank policy easing. This is most evident for the US Fed, reflecting stronger than expected growth, labour and inflation data.
This has revived the ‘higher for longer’ debate. However, the bond market reaction is a bit different to that seen last September and October. Back then, the 10y US Treasury yield rose far more than the 2y, so the curve steepened. Since mid-January, the curve has become more inverted, suggesting more of a ‘tighter for longer’ story. The market has not significantly revised the neutral policy rate assumption.
While it seems likely that the neutral rate has increased relative to pre-pandemic estimates, the current Fed funds rate is well above the highest estimate among FOMC members. Policy looks meaningfully restrictive. The longer it remains so, the greater the chance the economy (eventually) enters a downturn, along with risk assets. This a key reason to remain cautious in portfolios.
It’s all-REIT 
It has been a disappointing start to 2024 for listed real estate investment trusts (REITs) – publicly traded companies that own or operate predominantly income-producing properties. A pick-up in bond yields has been a major culprit behind the drawdown given the interest-rate sensitive nature of the sector. This echoes the bearish phase in markets late last summer when ‘higher-for-longer’ was a dominant market narrative.
However, with some REITs already trading at a significant discount to underlying asset values, the recent sell-off makes the asset class more attractive relative to unlisted real estate and other asset classes. Private real estate valuations appear to be approaching a floor and M&A activity is increasing, which should help. Fundamentals also look good, with sound REIT balance sheets, solid demand and high occupancy levels across most sectors. Even in the struggling office sector, ‘best in class’ properties are posting healthy rental growth. But as investors grapple with the likely economic landing zone in 2024, bond market gyrations mean market conditions in the sector could be bumpy.
Beware of the crowds 
A recent theme in global equities has been the growing concentration of the S&P 500 in a few mega-cap names that have captured the imagination of investors. But this isn’t just a US phenomenon –concentration in European equity markets is significantly higher.
Whilst European markets are smaller, the largest 10 stocks (by market cap) per country make up around 50-70% of their respective markets, which looks excessive. When profits are scarce, inves\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/asset-class-views/investment-weekly/2024-02-26/
########Top of main content 
[Start investing] Why choose global investment grade corporate bonds over cash or short-term investment? 
26 Jun 2023
Ashis Dash
Director and Head of Fixed Income Funds, HSBC Wealth and Personal Banking
Following successive rate hikes by major central banks during 2022 and H1 2023, deposit rates in many developed markets (DM) have become more attractive. The hawkish moves by key DM central banks have also pushed bond yields higher.
While short-term investments, such as time deposits and short-term funds do have their benefits within a portfolio, global investment grade (IG) corporate bonds may be preferred due to the following reasons: 
Longer-term growth potential: Yields are currently at a decade high, offering a good entry point to invest in global IG corporate bonds as policy rates are at or near their peaks in developed markets. If the global economy remains resilient, global IG corporate bonds may deliver higher income than USD term deposits. Even if policy rates fall, investors may still benefit from price appreciation, in addition to the coupon, as yields move lower with the fall in policy rates, likely offsetting wider credit spreads.
No lock-in period: Global IG corporate bonds allow for daily trading and don’t have lock-in periods, nor any penalty in case you need to withdraw your money before the pre-set time period such as with time deposits. 
Lower reinvestment risk: Investing in fixed-term deposits involves reinvestment risk if rates drop. For example, a 1-year USD term deposit pays 4%. If interest rates fall by 1% over the next 12 months, investors will only be able to roll over their maturing term deposits at 3%. In contrast, global IG corporate bonds, which currently have a duration1 of 6 years and yield 5%, would earn investors 11%2, assuming no changes to credit spreads. 
Diversification: Global IG corporate bonds tend to have a negative to low correlation with equities during bear markets. Since 2000, the Bloomberg Global Aggregate Corporate Index (hedged to USD)3 has shown a correlation of -0.5 to 0.1 with the MSCI World Index during periods when equity markets sold off by over 20%. The only exception was 2022 when the correlation was 0.5. Therefore, global IG corporate bonds can be a helpful diversifier within a portfolio, especially during a recession. 
Based on data from 2000 onwards, bonds have generally outperformed cash once policy rates have peaked because of the higher rate sensitivity of the asset class. Although tempting, higher yields on cash and short-term bonds come with an opportunity cost of missed returns during periods of looser monetary policy, and/or recessions, as yields often decline when central banks ease monetary policy.
Accessing global investment grade corporates through funds 
Accessing global IG bonds through mutual funds allows investors to participate in a diverse portfolio, holding a range of securities from many different issuers and maturities. This reduces the effects of specific risks linked to individual issuers/bonds and can help in better preserving capital, generating returns and ensuring liquidity compared to holding a single security. Nevertheless, investors should also be mindful of the risk of losing their capital when investing in mutual funds and the costs incurred for investing in these funds. 
Investors who capture current high bond yields are likely to receive better returns over the lifetime of the bond than by holding cash 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC Global Private Banking as at 24 May 2023. 
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
[Start investing] What is an index fund 
Index funds offer investors a simple, low cost way to invest in a range of assets...[16 Aug] 
[Start investing] Behavioural Finance: How not to be your own biggest enemy! 
Despite being one of the smartest species on the planet, human beings aren’t always rational with their...[16 Jul] 
[Start investing] “Time in”, but not “timing the market” 
Most investors want to time the market in the hope that they can buy low and sell high to maximise investment...[27 Feb] 
[Start investing] 5 Tips to Handle Market Volatility 
In today’s digitally connected world, short-term....[11 Feb] 
Disclaimer 
This document or video is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document or video is distributed and/or made available by HSBC Bank Canada (including one or more of its subsidiaries HSBC Investment Funds (Canada) Inc. (“HIFC”), HSBC Private Investment Counsel (Canada) Inc. (“HPIC”) and HSBC InvestDirect division of HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc. (“HIDC”)), HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HSBC Continental Europe, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited (UAE), HSBC UK Bank Plc, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (198401015221 (127776-V))/HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (20080100642 1 (807705-X)), HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch, HSBC Bank plc, Guernsey Branch, HSBC Bank plc in the Isle of Man, HSBC Continental Europe, Greece, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India (HSBC India), HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Limited, PT Bank HSBC Indonesia (HBID), HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A. (HSBC Uruguay is authorised and oversought by Banco Central del Uruguay), HBAP Sri Lanka Branch, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited – Philippine Branch, and HSBC FinTech Services (Shanghai) Company Limited (collectively, the “Distributors”) to their respective clients. This document or video is for general circulation and information purposes only.
The contents of this document or video may not be reproduced or further distributed to any person or entity, whether in whole or in part, for any purpose. This document or video must not be distributed in any jurisdiction where its distribution is unlawful. All non-authorised reproduction or use of this do\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/start-investing/2023-06-26/
########Top of main content 
Why ESG Matters: Ice cream: Deliciously sustainable? 
4 Aug 2023
Ice cream is an increasingly popular treat around the world, but investors should be aware of sustainability issues ranging from climate change to labour conditions. While investors should take into account how ice cream is sourced, produced and sold, they should also consider that it doesn’t (and might not) last forever.
In this issue of #WhyESGMatters, we look at the key contributors towards ice cream’s environmental impact (raw materials, manufacturing and retail and packaging), and social issues associated with popular flavours (vanilla and chocolate) and marketing. We also consider how the ice cream sector is impacted by climate change. 
Did you know? 
Source: Fair Labour Association, World Cocoa Foundation, A Konstantas et al., Environmental impacts of ice cream, Journal of Cleaner Production, 2018, and Evaluation of environmental sustainability of biscuits at the product and sectoral levels, Journal of Cleaner Production, 2019 
1. Environmental and social impacts 
Scooping it up
The ice cream industry is growing globally. According to Fortune Business Insights, ice cream market revenue could grow from cUSD74bn (2022) to USD105bn by 2029. Key drivers of this growth include rising demand for innovative flavours and increased consumption, especially in developing markets1Footnote link 1. We believe that this increased consumption could lead to greater stakeholder focus on sustainability aspects. 
Before it melts
Ice cream has a significant climate impact, arguably higher than many other reats. For example, the emissions from producing 1kg of premium vanilla ice cream is 3.94 kg CO2 (see Figure 1), which is 1.8x the climate impact of producing the same quantity of cupcakes and 2.2x that of chocolate-coated biscuits2Footnote link 2.We believe this could lead to more scrutiny of retailers’ commitments to reducing the climate impact of ice cream, while also considering the social aspects of ice cream production.
Figure 1: Climate impact of ice cream
Source: 2019 University of Manchester Study The ‘premium’ variety has a higher content of milk fat and sugar, contains eggs. Vanilla premium contains vanilla, the regular has an artificial flavouring agent (vanillin). The premium chocolate variety has also more cocoa powder than its regular equivalent 
Environment impacts 
Dairy farming and the cultivation of other raw materials used for making ice cream are associated with a number of environmental impacts.
Impacts of milk:
Climate impact, e.g. methane produced by cows 
Water consumption (mainly used to grow feed for dairy cattle)3Footnote link 3 
Agricultural land usage 
Freshwater and marine ecotoxicity (biological, chemical or physical stresses that affect ecosystems), e.g. from pesticide and fertiliser usage to grow feed 
Investors can make a difference by scrutinising retailers’ commitments to reducing the environmental impacts of ice cream production. The climate impact of milk, for example, could be reduced by modifying cows’ feed to reduce methane production. Research suggests that a 50% replacement of dried grass with fresh grass, combined with manure composting, could reduce the climate impact by 16%4Footnote link 4. 
Impacts of other raw materials (e.g. cocoa, vanilla):
Freshwater and marine ecotoxicity, e.g. pesticide and fertiliser usage especially during cocoa production 
Deforestation and biodiversity loss, e.g. cocoa or palm oil production which threatens tropical rain forests5Footnote link 5 
Water consumption, mainly green water (water held in soil available to plants) consumption, resulting from cultivation6Footnote link 6 
Addressing ecotoxicity caused by cocoa cultivation could involve reducing the use of conventional fertilisers and/or replacing them with organic alternatives, as well as reducing the amount of pesticides applied7Footnote link 7. A new deforestation law approved by the EU may also prompt palm oil and cocoa growers to improve their practices, ensuring that these ingredients aren’t produced from plants grown on deforested land. 
Social impacts 
Vanilla: While some mass-market producers now use artificial vanilla flavourings, real vanilla remains an ingredient in some ice creams, particularly high-end products. It’s the second-most expensive spice in the world (after saffron) due to its sophisticated and labour-consuming production process. The orchid that produces vanilla beans is pollinated by wild Melipona bees. Since there’re not many of these bees in other top vanilla-producing countries, each flower must be pollinated by hand8Footnote link 8.
Investors are increasingly scrutinising retailers’ approach to protecting workers as media and different organisations regularly highlight child labour and harsh working conditions in the vanilla sector9Footnote link 9. Madagascar is the world’s leading producer of vanilla, representing about 80% of the global supply10Footnote link 10. A study by the International Labour Organisation reported about 20,000 children aged 12 to 17 working in vanilla production in Madagascar, accounting for more than 30% of the sector’s workforce. 
Cocoa: According to the World Cocoa Foundation, c70% of cocoa is produced in West Africa, mostly Ghana and Côte d’Ivoire. Small- scale farmers are the beginning of complex, fragmented supply chains that often include harsh conditions. Limited access to water, sanitation, health and education services mean that many producers are below the poverty line.
We think investor focus on transparency in cocoa production will continue to increase given concerns over labour conditions. 
Mislabelling and deceptive marketing: Due to growing competition, rising cost of ingredients and pressure to deliver differentiated products, numerous instances of mislabelling and misselling of ice cream have been reported across different geographies.
Investors should be aware of the potential for lawsuits as a number have been fil\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/esg/why-esg-matters/ice-cream-deliciously-sustainable/
########Top of main content 
[Start investing] What is an index fund 
16 Aug 2022
Index funds offer investors a simple, low cost way to invest in a range of assets and markets. If you're looking for an index fund, find out about the different types of funds and which might be more suitable for you.
What is an index fund? 
An index fund is an investment that tracks a market index (eg S&P 500). They aim to track the performance of the index and deliver the same return. So if the index rises by 5% in a year, your investment is also likely to return 5%.
Index funds are a way of investing passively – they aren’t actively managed. But this isn’t necessarily a bad thing. In fact, they tend to perform more consistently than actively managed funds. That’s because index funds help spread your risk by investing in a broader range of assets.
Do they help to diversify your portfolio? 
In short, yes. Because this type of fund invests in all the assets – stocks or bonds – of an index, you can get exposure to a much wider range of companies, securities and regions than if they were selecting single stocks.
And because they have lower management fees than actively managed funds, index funds offer a good value way to diversify within a particular asset class or market.
What's the difference between ETFs and index funds? 
Like index funds, exchange traded funds, or ETFs offer a low cost, diversified mix of investments. However, where ETFs can be traded throughout the day like stocks, index funds are bought and sold only for the price set at the end of the trading day. While ETFs may offer lower expense ratios and greater flexibility, index funds simplify a lot of the trading decisions an investor has to make. 
Should I invest in bond or equity index funds? 
For investors with a longer-term investment plan or with a higher risk tolerance, it makes sense to invest in equity-heavy funds as you'll have time to recoup any drops in value.
In contrast, for investors with a relatively low risk tolerance, adding bond index funds can help mitigate against volatility.
What are the benefits of index funds? 
Index funds offer a range of benefits, including:
an easy to understand approach
lower management fees
more consistent performance
a highly diversified portfolio
an easy way to get broad exposure within a particular market
Index funds are central to a balanced portfolio, especially if you want to invest in a particular sector or market, but don’t feel confident picking specific stocks. This video can help you learn more about index funds.
It’s also worth considering an actively managed fund in addition to investing in index funds – a comprehensive portfolio will have both.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
[Start investing] Quality bonds as a diversifier amid market downturn 
Some people find bonds ‘boring’ because you don’t often hear much about them in the news...[25 Nov] 
[Start investing] Behavioural Finance: How not to be your own biggest enemy! 
Despite being one of the smartest species on the planet, human beings aren’t always rational with their...[16 Jul] 
[Start investing] Why choose global investment grade corporate bonds over cash or short-term investment? 
Following successive rate hikes by major central banks during 2022 and H1 2023, deposit rates in many...[30 Jun] 
[Start investing] 5 Tips to Handle Market Volatility 
In today’s digitally connected world, short-term....[11 Feb] 
Disclaimer 
This document or video is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document or video is distributed and/or made available by HSBC Bank Canada (including one or more of its subsidiaries HSBC Investment Funds (Canada) Inc. (“HIFC”), HSBC Private Investment Counsel (Canada) Inc. (“HPIC”) and HSBC InvestDirect division of HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc. (“HIDC”)), HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HSBC Continental Europe, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited (UAE), HSBC UK Bank Plc, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (198401015221 (127776-V))/HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (20080100642 1 (807705-X)), HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch, HSBC Bank plc, Guernsey Branch, HSBC Bank plc in the Isle of Man, HSBC Continental Europe, Greece, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India (HSBC India), HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Limited, PT Bank HSBC Indonesia (HBID), HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A. (HSBC Uruguay is authorised and oversought by Banco Central del Uruguay), HBAP Sri Lanka Branch, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited – Philippine Branch, and HSBC FinTech Services (Shanghai) Company Limited (collectively, the “Distributors”) to their respective clients. This document or video is for general circulation and information purposes only.
The contents of this document or video may not be reproduced or further distributed to any person or entity, whether in whole or in part, for any purpose. This document or video must not be distributed in any jurisdiction where its distribution is unlawful. All non-authorised reproduction or use of this document or video will be the responsibility of the user and may lead to legal proceedings. The material contained in this document or video is for general information purposes only and does not constitute investment research or advice or a recommendation to buy or sell investments. Some of the statements contained in this document or video may be considered forward looking statements which provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or events and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. HBAP and the Distributors do not undertake any obligation to update the forward-lookin\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/start-investing/what-is-an-index-fund/
########Top of main content 
FX Trends: Markets to realise a shallower easing path 
19 Jan 2024 
Key takeaways 
Market thoughts of a shallower global easing cycle should support the ‘safe-haven’ USD…
…but create headaches for “risk on” currencies like the AUD and NZD
The EUR and GBP are likely to face both external and domestic headwinds
Our tactical view 
Table of tactical views where a currency pair is referenced (e.g. USD/JPY):An up (⬆) / down (⬇) / sideways (➡) arrow indicates that the first currency quotedin the pair is expected by HSBC Global Research to appreciate/depreciate/track sideways against the second currency quoted over the coming weeks. For example, an up arrow against EUR/USD means that the EUR is expected to appreciate against the USD over the coming weeks. The arrows under the “current” represent our current views, while those under “previous” represent our views in the last month’s report.
USD 
Markets are likely to be forced to reprice the likely extent of the Federal Reserve’s (Fed) easing, which should support the USD through both rates and risk aversion channels. The Fed is likely to keep its policy rate unchanged at the 30-31 January Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) meeting. While the gap between the Fed’s guidance and market pricing is likely to remain wide, the risks to the USD are asymmetrically bullish, in our view. For US data releases, such as the ISM report on 1 February, nonfarm payrolls on 2 February and retail sales on 15 February, if data point to weakening economic activity,which may challenge market confidence that the US and, by misguided extension, the global economy, are destined for a soft landing, it should support the “safe haven” USD. Geopolitical uncertainty might also provide support to the USD in the weeks and months ahead.
Short-term direction : DXY^ 
Current 
▲ Appreciate
Previous 
▶ Track Sideways
EUR 
We look for lower EUR-USD in the weeks ahead, given the possibility of risk aversion and a still challenging regional profile. Market pricing points to a 135bp of easing by the European Central Bank (ECB) during 2024, with the first cut fully priced in for June. Some ECB officials, including President Christine Lagarde, have recently signalled the chance of a move around mid-year (Bloomberg, 18 Jannuary 2024). A hawkish pushback from the ECB at the 25 January meeting does not necessarily point to EUR upside, given a still challenging growth/inflation mix in the Eurozone.
Short-term direction : EUR-USD 
Current 
▼ Depreciate
Previous 
▶ Track Sideways
GBP 
Paring back dovish market pricing globally could see risk appetite falter, undermining the GBP in the weeks ahead. Beyond these global headwinds, the GBP also faces some near-term local challenges, as the growthinflation mix remains problematic. The Bank of England (BoE) will meet on 1 February, and the policy rate is likely to be kept unchanged at 5.25%. That being said, should the BoE have a dovish pivot, the GBP is set to be hit through rates channel. The GBP also looks more vulnerable than EUR, given its reliance on the most volatile type of external financing flows.
Short-term direction : GBP-USD 
Current 
▼ Depreciate
Previous 
▼ Depreciate
JPY 
We expect the JPY to consolidate, rather than weaken further, in the weeks ahead. USD-JPY has already moved higher than its rate differentials, implying that markets no longer expect any move from the Bank of Japan (BoJ) at its 23 January meeting. But any hint from the BoJ about approaching an end to its ultra-loose monetary policy could provide disproportionate JPY support after recent weakness. While retail investor flows bear watching, the big picture for the JPY is set by US yields, timing of BoJ exit, and Japanese life insurance companies’ hedging activities. We expect USD-JPY to decline modestly over the medium term.
Short-term direction : USD-JPY 
Current 
▶ Track Sideways
Previous 
▶ Track Sideways
CHF 
We would not chase the market fashion for CHF weakness, especially against the EUR. While the Swiss National Bank (SNB) may not feel as compelled as before to drive the CHF stronger, this does not mean it will be tolerant of notable CHF weakness. Swiss core and headline inflation is back below target, but this happened in part due to CHF strength throughout 2023. Our positioning index suggests short positions in USD-CHF so far this year, and the rise in USD-CHF looks set to persist.
Short-term direction : USD-CHF 
Current 
▲ Appreciate
Previous 
▼ Depreciate
CAD 
The extent of CAD weakness so far in 2024 looks overdone, relative to rate differentials and risk appetite. We look for consolidation in USD-CAD, rather than extension higher, in the weeks ahead. Policy is highly likely to be left unchanged at the 24 January Bank of Canada (BoC) meeting, but while GDP data for November (on 31 January) should continue to support a soft landing narrative, our economists note that core inflation is still running hot. As such, the tone of the BoC meeting is unlikely to cause the CAD further angst, in our view.
Short-term direction : USD-CAD 
Current 
▶ Track Sideways
Previous 
▼ Depreciate
AUD 
We expect the AUD to weaken against the USD in the weeks ahead. Risks are skewed towards markets dialling back easing expectations for the Fed but pricing in perhaps a bit more easing for the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA), which will weigh on AUD-USD via both risk sentiment and relative yield channels. The policy rate is expected to be kept unchanged at the 6 February RBA meeting. The AUD also faces a slow transmission from China’s recovery to Australia’s export demand.
Short-term direction : AUD-USD 
Current 
▼ Depreciate
Previous 
▶ Track Sideways
NZD 
Like the AUD, the NZD shares similar external headwinds, but we expect the NZD to fare relatively better. While 4Q CPI (on 24 January) and wage growth data (on 7 February) should decide the tone at the 28 February Reserve Bank of New Zealand (RBNZ) meeting, the latest Quarterly Survey of Business Opinion do\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/fx-insights/fx-trends/2024-01/
########Top of main content 
Specialist investment support 
We'll help you spot if you need any specialist support before making an investment decision. 
We're here for you 
We want you to be comfortable with any investment choice you make. And, we understand that one size doesn’t always fit all when it comes to making an important decision.
That's why we're happy to make adjustments to how you use our services, or we can ensure you speak to a specialist who better understands your situation.
So, if you'd like specialist support before you make an investment decision, get in touch with us and we'll be here for you.
Get in touch 
Support for whatever you need 
Take a look at the different examples – which could be both short or long-term, that may need specialist support.
If you think you're experiencing something similar, or want to let us know about your own circumstances, get in touch with us before you make an investment decision.
A physical or mental health condition 
At any time in your life you could experience a physical or mental health condition, that could change how you carry out day-to-day tasks and impact your financial decision-making.
A few examples could be: 
a mental health condition
a physical disability 
a severe, long-term or terminal illness diagnosis
A change in your life at home 
You may have recently experienced a change in your life at home that you need to adapt to – whether that's emotionally, financially or both. 
The change could result in you needing more time to understand information and make decisions.
A few examples could be if you've: 
recently had a baby
had a change in your family life or structure
got married, divorced or separated
been bereaved
Low confidence managing your money 
For different reasons, you might not be confident managing your money – which could affect your understanding of financial products.
A few examples could be if you: 
aren't sure how to best make your money work for you
are unfamiliar with technology, like mobile apps and online banking.
rely or previously relied on a someone else to help you make decisions
A change to your finances 
If your finances have recently increased or decreased, you may still be adapting to the difference. 
Managing a change in your finances, or worrying about money can affect how you make financial decisions. 
A few examples could be if you've: 
been made redundant, changed your job or retired
experienced a change in your family's income
recently received a large sum
Get in touch with us 
You can get in touch with us whichever way best suits you.
Speak to us 
Give us a call to find out how we could help you.
Call us on:
03457 456 123
Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
You can also visit us in branch to speak to our friendly team in person.
Find a branch 
Chat with us online 
To start a chat with us:
Log on to online banking
Select the 'Chat' tab to the right of the page
Not yet registered for online banking? Register now.
Log on and chat 
Other support 
If you're not ready to get in touch, or you'd like to do some more research, take a look at some useful guides. 
Accessibility 
Check out some of our services that can help you bank your way. 
Life events 
Find out how we could help you manage changes in your life. 
Managing your account 
Everything you need to get set up and manage your mobile and online banking. 
Financial fitness 
Our financial fitness hub gives you the tools you need to help work your money. 
Tell us about your needs 
We're here to support you and your banking in the way that works for you. 
Money worries 
We're here to help if you're worried about money. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/existing-customers/investment-support/
########Top of main content 
Matured Child Trust Funds 
If you’re the registered contact for a fund that’s about to mature, here’s what happens next 
Two months before the beneficiary’s 18th birthday, we’ll send a letter to the registered contact. This explains that once the beneficiary turns 18, legal ownership of the HSBC Child Trust Fund will be in their name. They’ll need to confirm what they would like to do with the investments, for example, sell them and move the proceeds to an ISA or a new or existing bank account. To do so, they may have to provide some identification and proof of address at one of our branches. 
If they don’t want to decide straight away (or they can’t visit a branch), they can keep the invested funds in the matured account until they’re ready to make a decision. Please note, the HSBC Child Trust Fund invests in stocks and shares. This means the value of the investment and any income from it can go down as well as up and may fall below the amount put in.
Go straight to: 
Identification and proof of address
What happens to the account when the beneficiary turns 18? 
What are the beneficiary’s options when their HSBC Child Trust Fund matures?
What should I be doing as the registered contact?
What to do if the beneficiary lacks mental capacity
Identification and proof of address 
Whichever option the beneficiary chooses, we require identification and proof of address for them. In most cases this involves taking the documentation into an HSBC UK branch.
Check the opening times of your local branch before you leave home.
What if we live overseas, or are unable to visit a branch? 
If the beneficiary of the fund is not able to come into an HSBC UK branch, they can still instruct us of their choices when they turn 18. They can download the printable form below and return it to us by post. It’ll need to be returned to us with certified identification and proof of address. The form includes full details of how to do this.
Matured Child Trust Fund Payment Instruction form (PDF, 55KB) Matured Child Trust Fund Payment Instruction form (PDF, 55KB) Download 
Please note, if the beneficiary lives outside the UK, they may not be eligible for certain accounts or products. They might also need to give different forms of identification and proof of address.
What happens to the account when the beneficiary turns 18? 
we’ll write to the registered contact 2 months before the beneficiary turns 18, explaining the options. 
one month before the beneficiary turns 18, we’ll write directly to them, explaining what their options are and what they’ll need to do.
on the beneficiary’s 18th birthday, their HSBC Child Trust Fund becomes an HSBC Matured Child Trust Fund and we’ll transfer legal ownership of the account into their name. From this point, it will be up to them what they do with their account.
Once the beneficiary turns 18, your responsibilities as the registered contact are complete, and all correspondence will be sent directly to them. You’ll no longer be able to view the account through online or mobile banking. The beneficiary will be able to view it, if they’re registered for online or mobile banking.
What are the beneficiary’s options when their HSBC Child Trust Fund matures? 
sell the existing investments and transfer the proceeds to an HSBC UK bank account - or an account with another provider - in their own name.
sell the existing investments and transfer the funds to one of our HSBC ISAs or an ISA with another provider - this won’t count towards their annual ISA subscription allowance. We currently accept transfers from HSBC Matured Child Trust Funds into HSBC Loyalty Cash ISAs and the Global Investment Centre Stocks & Shares ISAs. If they choose another provider, they’ll need to approach them first to initiate the transfer and make sure they’ll accept a transfer from an HSBC Matured Child Trust Fund.
opt for a combination of the above.
What should I be doing as the registered contact? 
Start talking to the beneficiary about the choices they have when their HSBC Child Trust Fund matures. We have some useful information around saving, investing and growing your money.
Make sure we have the correct name and address for the beneficiary. The details we have can be found on your most recent annual statement. If they’re wrong, please get in touch. You can call us on 0345 606 6241. If you have a speech or hearing impairment you can use our textphone service on 03457 660 391. Lines are open from 8am to 5pm Monday to Friday, excluding bank holidays.
Make sure any final payments are received before maturity. 
Details of final payments
Once the beneficiary turns 18, no further contributions can be accepted into the account.
cheques should be received at least four business days before the maturity date. 
we will collect Direct Debits up to and including the last business day before maturity - they will then be cancelled. If the final Direct Debit is due on a non-business day and the next business day is on, or after, the maturity date, the Direct Debit payment will not be collected.
please ensure any other payments have gone into the account by the last business day before maturity. 
you should cancel any future payment instructions that are due to be received on or after maturity. 
please ensure any friends or family who pay into the account arrange any final payments in line with the dates above. 
What to do if the beneficiary lacks mental capacity 
If the beneficiary lacks mental capacity to access their Child Trust Fund, you will need to make an application to the Court of Protection to obtain authority to access this money on their behalf.
Some young people may only need support to deal with their finances, in which case they may be able to make a Lasting Power of Attorney. This would give you the authority to access the account for them. Acting as an appointee for benefits will not give you legal access to the matured Child Trust Fund. 
You can find more information about how to manage\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/products/child-trust-fund/maturity/
########Top of main content 
Your Child Trust Fund - next steps 
Figure out your next move 
If you’re turning 18 in the next few weeks, you’ve probably received a letter explaining that your Child Trust Fund is due to mature. On your 18th birthday, you’ll become the legal owner of the account, which means you’ll need to think about what you want to do with your money. In the coming months, you might be starting work, heading off to uni or mapping out an adventure. Maybe you’ve got plans for your money now, or perhaps you’re looking to the future. Either way, there are a number of different paths you can set your money on and we’re here to help you navigate.
Options for your money 
Once you turn 18, no more payments can be made into your Child Trust Fund, but you can instruct us to sell the invested funds and transfer the proceeds into another account. This means you can continue saving, or get access to your money now, depending on your short and long-term plans. 
Here’s a round-up of the different accounts, so you can work out what’s best for you. 
Most of these options will require you to visit us in person to supply identification and proof of address. Check the opening times of your local branch before you leave home.
HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA 
If you want to carry on building your savings, a cash ISA is a tax-efficient option.
How do I do this? You can instruct us to transfer your proceeds to a new or existing HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA.
What is a cash ISA? 
HSBC Loyalty Cash ISA 
HSBC stocks & shares ISA 
If you’re considering investing a little money for the future, a stocks & shares ISA is a tax-efficient way to start.
How do I do this? You can instruct us to transfer your proceeds to an HSBC stocks & shares ISA. This gives you the option of putting your money into a diverse range of investments, which may produce a better return than a cash ISA. However, they also come with greater risk and you may not get back what you invest.
What is a stocks & shares ISA? 
HSBC stocks & shares ISA 
ISA with another provider 
If you want to carry on building your savings, an ISA is a tax-efficient option.
How do I do this? You can ask us to move the proceeds into a non-HSBC ISA. You’ll need to ask the other provider to initiate the transfer. They’ll ask you for the account details of your HSBC Child Trust Fund. You may still need to go into an HSBC branch to supply a signature and provide identification and proof of address.
What is an ISA? 
An HSBC UK bank account 
If you’re likely to spend your money in the near future, you may want to transfer the proceeds into a current account. We have accounts that are ideal for basic banking and ones that give you added benefits, as well as one designed especially for students.
If you don’t have an account with us, you can apply for a new HSBC UK bank account online. Once your account is open, you can provide your payment instruction to us.
How do I do this? If you’re registered for telephone banking, you can call us on 0345 606 6241 - how to register for telephone banking. Or you can come into a branch. 
What are the benefits of a current account? 
HSBC Student Account 
If you're planning on going to university, our Student Bank Account makes it easy to manage your finances and make the most of your newfound independence.
How do I do this? Visit our student page to find out how to apply and get £100 cashback. In order to qualify you must make five eligible transaction within 30 days and be on a first year qualifying course. (New customers only. T&Cs and other eligibility criteria apply.)
What are the benefits of a student account? 
A non-HSBC bank account 
If you’re likely to spend your money in the near future, you may want to transfer the proceeds into a current account. 
How do I do this? If you want us to transfer the proceeds into a bank account with a different provider, we’ll need you to do it in person at an HSBC branch.
You’ll need to bring identification and proof of address. You’ll also need a statement from the bank account you want to transfer the money to, dated within the last four months.
What are the benefits of a current account? 
A combination of options 
You could also divide your money between a number of different accounts.
How do I do this? If you think transferring the proceeds to more than one type of account might be right for you, we’re happy to talk this over.
You can do this:
by phone on 0345 606 6241
in person by coming into a branch
Find out more about managing your finances and everyday budgeting 
If you need further information or advice 
You should think carefully about your options in order to make the decision that’s right for you.
HSBC has three different types of investment advice depending on how much you have to invest. Be mindful that investments can go down in value as well as up.
If you’ve still got questions, we recommend you consider taking independent financial adviceindependent financial advice This link will open in a new window. Your money will remain in your HSBC Matured CTF account until we carry out your instructions. 
Frequently Asked Questions
What if I can’t come into an HSBC UK branch? 
If you don’t live in the UK, or there’s something else that makes it difficult for you to come into a branch in person, you can still instruct us of your choice when you turn 18. Download and complete the printable form below. It’ll need to be returned to us by post with certified identification and proof of address. The form has details of how to do this.
Matured Child Trust Fund Payment Instruction form (PDF, 138KB) Matured Child Trust Fund Payment Instruction form (PDF, 138KB) Download 
If you prefer, you can keep the existing investments in your HSBC Matured CTF account until you’re able to visit a branch. If you still need help with giving us your instructions, please call us on 0345 606 6241.
Please note, if you live outside the UK, you may not be eligible for certain accounts or products. You might also need to give differen\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/products/child-trust-fund/next-steps/
########Top of main content 
Latest scam warnings 
On this page we'll regularly keep you updated about the latest types of scam. 
If someone contacts you out of the blue by phone, email or text message:
Stop – taking a moment to stop and think before parting with your money or information could keep you safe.
Challenge – could it be fake? It's OK to reject, refuse or ignore any requests. Only criminals will try to rush or panic you.
Protect – contact someone you trust, such as a friend or family member and contact the company directly.
More ways to stay safe online
We also regularly post warnings about common scams on our social media channels Facebook Facebook This link will open in a new window, Instagram Instagram This link will open in a new window and Twitter Twitter This link will open in a new window.
HSBC Fraud & Cyber awareness app
The HSBC Fraud and Cyber awareness app keeps you up to date with current scams, fraud trends and guides to help protect you and your money.
Get the latest alerts straight to your phone. You can also share content to your social channels, and test your knowledge with our range of quizzes.
February 2024: Gold purchasing scams 
If someone asks you to buy gold and hand it to them for safekeeping, it’s a scam. 
Fraudsters are tricking people into buying gold, other precious metals, or jewellery and then physically handing it over to criminals. 
They may pose as police, bank employees, or other government officials (or all of these together) to make you believe your money is not safe in the bank. 
What to look out for 
The exact details of each scam can vary. They may involve more than one scammer posing as different organisations. They may tell you:
You have been a victim of fraud within the bank and shouldn’t trust them 
You are helping a police investigation 
Your money is counterfeit 
You need to buy gold or jewellery to stay safe 
Scammers will make you believe they are helping you to trick you into giving them gold. They might ask you to buy it from a reputable supplier. 
The police and government agencies will NEVER ask you to buy gold. Anyone who does this is trying to trick you.
How to stay safe 
Stop and think. If you are asked to buy gold to stay safe, it is a scam. Legitimate fraud investigations will not ask you to do this.
If someone contacts you or asks you to buy or hand over gold or jewellery, hang up immediately. 
If you think you’ve been a victim of fraud, call the number on the back of your HSBC card immediately. You can also make a report to Action Fraud Action Fraud This link will open in a new window.
February 2024: Romance scams 
Met a new partner or friend online? Are they unable to meet in person? If they ask you to send them money, it could be a fraudster using a fake identity to scam you.
How romance scams work 
Criminals set up fake profiles on dating sites or social media, and build ‘relationships’ with victims who think they’re talking to a real person. They build trust, often over months of chatting and even phone calls. There’s usually a believable reason they can’t meet in person. Then they play on your emotions to trick you into sending them money.
It’s easy to be fooled – read how Marjorie lost £100,000 to a romance scam.
Spot the signs of romance scams 
A scammer you’ve only met online might ask you for money and say things like:
They are abroad and need money for travel to visit you 
They have a sick relative who needs medical care 
They have a business problem and need a loan to tide them over 
They’re waiting for an inheritance but need funds to access their money 
If someone you’re talking to online asks for money, stop and think. Check in with family or friends you know in person for a second opinion. 
How to stay safe 
Never send money to someone you haven’t met in person. They might not be who they say they are.
What to do if you think you’ve been a victim 
Call us using the number on the back of your card if you think you’ve been the victim of a romance scam.
January 2024: Hotel booking payment scams 
Scams involving hotel bookings are on the rise. 
If you’re making payments for hotels or holidays, take extra care to protect yourself from fraud.
What to look out for 
Some hotels have recently been compromised by scammers, which also impacts major booking platforms. 
Fraudsters send messages or links asking for payments which may come directly from your booking app or platform 
These messages often contain accurate booking information, like your hotel name or holiday dates - this makes it hard to spot it’s a scam 
They might say there’s a problem with your card, or that your booking was cancelled and you need to pay again 
Clicking payment links in messages like these allows scammers to take your payment instead of the hotel.
How to protect yourself 
Stop and double check before making hotel or holiday payments. Call your hotel directly if you receive an unexpected request for payment, even if this comes through an official booking platform or app.
If you think you’ve been a victim 
Call the number on the back of your card immediately if you think you’ve been a victim of fraud.
You can stay up to date with alerts about latest scams by downloading the HSBC Fraud and Cyber Awareness app. 
November 2023: Black Friday scams 
Fraudsters are out to fool people during Black Friday with deals that don’t exist. These are called purchase scams.
Purchase scams happen when you pay for a product or service that doesn't get delivered. This means your money is lost.
Watch out for offers that:
Feature a too-good-to-be-true deal or discount 
Have 'limited availability' to encourage you to act quickly 
Are advertised on social media or other online marketplaces 
Remember to:
Use safe sites when shopping 
Research the retailer online to make sure they’re legitimate 
Research the item you want to buy 
Find out more about purchase scams and other common scams.
October 2023: Mobile app fraud 
Beware of downloading fake or fraudulent apps onto \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/latest-scam-warnings/
########Top of main content 
Are you missing out on Child Trust Fund cash? 
Almost half a million young people are missing out on Child Trust Fund money. 
Find out whether you could be one of them – and what to do about it. 
What are Child Trust Funds? 
The government scheme was set up to help families invest on behalf of children born from 1 September 2002 to 2 January 2011. 
More than 6 million Child Trust Fund accounts were set up during this period, usually with banks, building societies or investment managers. Parents or guardians opened most of them, but the government also set up 1.7 million government also set up 1.7 million This link will open in a new window on behalf of children whose families didn't open one.
The first account holders started to turn 18 in 2020. Once they’re 18, they can withdraw funds or transfer savings elsewhere. 
How do you find a missing Child Trust Fund account? 
The government reported in September 2023 that nearly 430,000 account holders were missing out 430,000 account holders were missing out This link will open in a new window on unclaimed cash.
Some people who have turned 18 may not even know they have a Child Trust Fund. Their parents or guardians may have forgotten who they set the account up with. 
If you’re not sure if you have an account or where it might be, you can use this government tool government tool This link will open in a new window to help you track it down.
If you can't access the tool, you can ask for other ways to help you find your account. HM Revenue & Customs will send details by post within 3 weeks of receiving such a request.
What can you do with an HSBC Child Trust Fund? 
Once you've found out who your provider is, you should get in touch with them directly. Some providers might automatically mature Child Trust Funds into an ISA. Otherwise, you can normally either ask to:
withdraw the money 
transfer it into an ISA or other savings account 
If you already have a Child Trust Fund with us, you can add up to £9,000 a year until your child turns 18. 
When the beneficiary reaches 18, they'll need to tell us what they want to do with the money.
Find out more about what you can do with a Child Trust Fund.
Back to top 
What next? 
ISAs vs savings accounts 
Social 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to save money as a teenager 
How to top up an ISA 
How to save for a house deposit\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/are-you-missing-out-on-child-trust-fund-cash/
########Top of main content 
Should you get travel insurance? 
In the excitement of planning a holiday, the last thing you want to think about is something going wrong. 
However, having insurance for your international or UK trip can help protect you if it does. 
There are 5 main reasons why people take travel insurance:
Your trip gets cancelled before you even set offYour trip gets cancelled before you even set off anchors to your trip section
You get delayedYou get delayed anchors to you get delayed section
You fall ill or get hurt while outside the UKYou fall ill or get hurt while outside the UK anchors to you fall ill section
Your belongings get lost or stolenYour belongings get lost or stolen anchors to your belongings section
You need legal adviceYou need legal advice anchors to you need legal advise section
Your trip gets cancelled before you even set off 
It’s a good idea to buy travel insurance as soon as you’ve booked so you’re covered from that point onwards. Travel insurance doesn't just cover you while you're away. It can also cover you for things that might go wrong before you travel, such as:
getting injured or ill, including contracting coronavirus 
experiencing a death in the family 
finding out your travel company’s gone out of business 
being made redundant 
You get delayed 
Even when you’re on your way to the airport, it’s not uncommon for a storm to wreak havoc with your plans. Delay cover can be a useful feature of travel insurance.
Most policies cover more than just acts of God (a natural event that’s outside of human control). Many will also cover missed connections, industrial action, and mechanical breakdown. Just make sure you check your policy to see what type of delay and disruption cover is included.
You fall ill or get hurt while outside the UK 
This is possibly the most valuable feature of any travel insurance policy. Thanks to the NHS, many of us don’t think about the costs of healthcare. But a medical emergency in another country can be very expensive. 
If you're planning a trip to an EU country, you can apply for a UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) apply for a UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) This link will open in a new window to get state-provided healthcare during your visit. If you have a valid UK-issued European Health Insurance Card (EHIC), it still provides cover in the EU post-Brexit. Once your EHIC has expired, you’ll be able to replace it with a GHIC.
Keep in mind, an EHIC or GHIC is not a replacement for travel insurance. It doesn’t cover everything – such as private healthcare, mountain rescue or being flown back to the UK (medical repatriation) – so it’s a good idea to have both before you travel.
When taking out travel insurance, check what activities are covered as standard. If you’re going skiing or taking part in extreme sports, you may need to pay for extra cover.
Your belongings get lost or stolen 
Having your suitcase go missing, or your phone, cash or travel documents stolen can have a big impact on your trip. With the right travel insurance, you'll have the peace of mind of knowing your belongings are covered.
Before buying a policy, check whether it covers all your gadgets and other important possessions. While some may be included as standard, others – such as your clubs if you’re going on a golf trip – may be optional extras. Also check what's covered under your home insurance policy if you have one.
You need legal advice 
Hopefully, you won't have any trouble with the law while you're away. But if you do, travel insurance can provide legal cover and advice to assist you. This could be particularly relevant if you’re travelling to a country without a legal aid system.
Remember, you may already have legal cover as part of your home or car insurance policy – although you’d need to check if it covers you outside the UK.
Are you considering travel insurance? 
The first thing to check is that you’re not already covered – perhaps with your bank account?
If not, and you’re planning two or more trips within a 12-month period, it’s worth considering whether annual or ‘multi-trip cover’ works out cheaper for you. Naturally, this will depend on where you're travelling and for how long – so it pays to compare annual cover against the cost of buying a policy for each trip.
Aside from cost, the other good thing about buying an annual policy is convenience – if you take a third trip within the same region during the year, you’ll already be covered.
At HSBC, we no longer offer single and annual multi-trip travel insurance policies – but M&S Bank M&S Bank This link will open in a new window, a member of the HSBC Group, does. Terms and conditions apply. 
M&S Travel Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Annual multi-trip age limit of under 80, with no age limit for single trip policies.
M&S Travel Insurance is not available to customers who live in the Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Make the most of your international journey 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Things to consider when booking a holiday 
What to consider when buying insurance 
Should you pay in the local currency outside the UK?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/why-bother-with-travel-insurance-for-holidays/
########Top of main content 
Things to consider when booking a holiday 
You can’t guarantee your next holiday will go without a hitch. But with a little forward planning, you can reduce the impact of things going wrong. 
Before you book your next trip, here’s what you need to know.
What is the latest travel guidance? 
For foreign travel advice, visit GOV.UK GOV.UK This link will open in a new window. You’ll find the latest information on coronavirus, as well as safety and security, entry requirements and travel warnings for different countries. 
What cover do you have if you pay with a credit or debit card? 
If you pay for a holiday or flights costing between £100 and £30,000 with credit card, you may have protection under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. Not all situations are covered but you may be able to claim if the airline or travel company goes bust, for example.
Debit card payments and purchases are not covered by section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. But your card provider may be able to recover some of the money, under the 'chargeback' scheme in the event something goes wrong.
Claiming a refund from either your travel operator or your card provider may lead to a better outcome than claiming via your travel insurance, as you may be able to claim the full amount you paid without having to pay an insurance excess. You could also potentially recover losses for all party members on the booking.
Before making a claim, make sure you follow the supplier’s refund and re-booking terms in the first instance.
If you already have travel insurance, what’s covered? 
Before booking any new travel, check with your insurer to see what sort of cover you’d have if:
you travel to countries where restrictions are still in place 
your destination enforces travel restrictions after you book 
you get coronavirus before you’re due to travel 
you get quarantined at an airport 
If you don’t yet have travel insurance, what sort of cover is available? 
As coronavirus is a known event, you may struggle to get coronavirus-related cancellation cover. But there are plenty of other things you’ll likely be covered for, such as:
medical costs, including the cost of treating you and getting you back home 
lost or stolen baggage 
delayed or missed flights 
personal liability for any injuries you cause 
When should you take out travel insurance? 
If you decide to get travel insurance, it makes sense to buy it as soon as you book your holiday. Because, as well as covering you while you’re away, travel insurance can also cover you for things that might go wrong before you travel, such as:
finding out your travel company’s gone out of business 
being made redundant 
getting ill or injured 
experiencing a death in the family 
If you’re planning two or more trips within a 12-month period, you may want to consider whether annual or ‘multi-trip cover’ works out cheaper for you. This depends on where you're travelling to and how long you’re going for, so compare the cost against single-trip cover before buying a policy.
How can we help? 
We no longer offer single and annual multi-trip travel insurance policies at HSBC but M&S Bank M&S Bank This link will open in a new window, a member of the HSBC Group, does. Terms and conditions apply.
And if you’re looking for ways you can manage your money while outside the UK, we can help.
Our HSBC Global Money Account allows you to spend money abroad (withdraw cash or make card purchases in multiple currencies) without paying HSBC fees – just as you would at home. 
Global Money is available for eligible HSBC Current Account holders who have the HSBC UK mobile banking app and a valid email address that’s on our records. Terms and conditions, and other non-HSBC fees may apply.
You can also order Travel Money online from HSBC – choose home delivery or collect from one of our Full Service or Cash Service branches. The minimum order for Travel Money is £100 and you have to have an account with HSBC, first direct or M&S Bank.
M&S Travel Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Annual multi-trip age limit of under 80, with no age limit for single trip policies. 
M&S Travel Insurance is not available to customers who live in the Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Make the most of your international journey 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Should you get travel insurance? 
What to consider when buying insurance 
Make sure you and your money are holiday-ready\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/coronavirus/should-you-book-a-holiday/
########Top of main content 
Buildings and contents insurance 
Combine contents and buildings insurance to get complete coverage for your home. 
Insure your home and everything inside it 
Make sure your home is fully protected. Get a quote today and apply for a buildings and contents insurance policy, provided by Aviva.
Get a buildings and contents quote 
Retrieve a quote, or continue with one you were given in the last 90 days.
Retrieve a quote Retrieve a quote This link will open in a new window 
Why get buildings and contents insurance with us? 
Pay monthly 
Pay in regular instalments with no additional charges if you'd like to pay monthly.
24/7 support 
Your UK-based team are available around the clock, whenever you need to make a buildings or contents insurance claim.
Flexible policy 
There’s no cost for changing your cover whenever you need to, but your premium may increase if you add extras.
Refund switching costs 
Get a new policy with us before your current policy ends and we’ll refund any cancellation fees. T&Cs apply. Get a refundGet a refund This link will open in a new window.
What does our buildings and contents insurance cover? 
Costs to repair your home after loss or damage 
We'll cover whatever it costs to repair your home after loss or damage. This could be from a fire, explosion, storm, vandalism, vehicles, water escaping from pipes, theft or falling trees. 
Unlimited buildings cover 
We'll cover the full cost of rebuilding your home up to the same specification as the original building, with no upper limit. 
Up to £50,000 for loss or damage to your belongings 
You could receive up to £50,000 to cover loss or damage to your belongings or up to £80,000 on request. 
Replace items on a like-for-like basis 
We'll replace any contents item you claim for on a like-for-like basis, or replace it with its nearest available equivalent. 
Water damage 
If you've got water damage from a leaking pipe, we'll find the source of the leak and fix any damage caused. 
Cover for your contents while you're temporarily away from home 
If you're away from home, you could still get cover for your contents including up to £5,000 for a member of your household who is away working or studying. 
Somewhere for you and your pets to stay 
If damage has meant you can't live in your home, we'll find you and your domestic pets somewhere to stay. 
All subject to your policy terms and conditions.
What's not covered by our buildings and contents insurance? 
Any excess on your policy schedule
Damage from any cause of wet or dry rot
Building and contents wear and tear
We'll reduce the amount we pay for clothes or household linen (eg bedding) to reflect wear and tear
Damage that happens after the home has been left unoccupied for longer than the period shown in your policy
Loss or damage caused by domestic animals
Motorised vehicles, aircraft, boats, boards and other craft and any parts, spares or accessories
Other exclusions apply – please read the General Exclusions section of the policy booklet (PDF, 65KB)policy booklet (PDF, 65KB) This link will open in a new window.
Optional extras 
Choose from a variety of extra cover to make sure your policy protects everything you need it to.
Home emergency cover 
Add home emergency cover for expert help in the event of an emergency with your property.
What does our home emergency cover include? 
Up to £1,000 for labour, parts and materials (including VAT) per incident
Hotel accommodation costs up to £1,000 if you can't live in your home
No excess
£500 boiler contribution for boilers declared beyond repair
Loss of essential services, ie boiler breakdowns
Roof damage following a storm
Plumbing emergencies
Electrical emergency and breakdown
Lost keys or damage to locks, doors or windows
Pest infestation of rats, mice, wasps or hornets
What's doesn't our home emergency cover include? 
Emergencies you were already aware of when you bought the cover
Routine maintenance, cleaning and servicing of your property
Air conditioning equipment
Cosmetic damage to your property
Repairs due to wear and tear, eg dripping taps
Breakdown of domestic appliances like washing machines or electric showers
For a full list of events covered and exclusions please read the Home Emergency Cover section of the policy booklet (PDF, 65KB)policy booklet (PDF, 65KB) This link will open in a new window
Accidental damage cover for buildings 
Add this cover for sudden and unexpected damage to your home including, breaking fixed glass such as a window or hitting a nail through a pipe when doing DIY.
What's not covered by our accidental damage cover for buildings? 
Any excess on your policy
Damage caused by wear and tear, vermin, insects, fungus, the weather or gradual damage
Damage caused by water entering the home
Damage caused by building extensions, repairs, alterations, subsidence, heave or landslip
For a full list of events covered and exclusions please read the Accidental Damage Buildings section of the policy booklet (PDF, 65KB)policy booklet (PDF, 65KB) This link will open in a new window.
Accidental damage cover for contents 
Add this cover for sudden and unexpected damage to the contents in your home, such as spilling wine on the sofa or knocking over your TV.
What's not covered by our accidental damage cover for contents? 
Any excess on your policy
Damage caused by wear and tear, vermin, insects, fungus, the weather or gradual damage
Damage caused by water entering the home
Damage caused by domestic animals
For a full list of events covered and exclusions please read the Accidental Damage Contents section of the policy booklet (PDF, 65KB)policy booklet (PDF, 65KB) This link will open in a new window.
Personal belongings cover 
Add this cover to protect your personal belongings wherever you are in the world, with cover between £2,000 and £10,000, and a single item limit of £1,500.
What's not covered by our personal belongings cover? 
Any excess on your policy
Theft from an unattended vehicle – unless c\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/buildings-and-contents/
########Top of main content 
Select and Cover 
Our Multi Cover Policy 
Sorry, but we're no longer offering new Select and Cover policies.
If you already have Select and Cover with us, find out how you can manage your policy or make a claim.
Make a Select and Cover claim 
Important information 
We're making some important changes to Select and Cover which will take effect from 16 May 2023. These will include a price increase, as well as some changes to what your policy will cover. Please read our notice of variation to find out more.
Notice of variation of changes taking effect from 16 May Notice of variation of changes taking effect from 16 May Download 
Avoid insurance overlap 
Does your mobile phone package include insurance? Or, perhaps you already have an annual travel insurance policy with your bank account. Be sure to compare your existing insurance policies against the Select and Cover options you’re considering. This will help you to compare the costs and see if a multi-cover insurance policy could suit you.
Excesses and exclusions apply 
For Mobile Phone, Gadget and some Worldwide Travel Insurance claims, you'll need to pay an insurance excess.
Useful documents 
HSBC Summary of Cover Limits (PDF, 115KB) HSBC Summary of Cover Limits (PDF, 115KB) Download 
Policy Wording (PDF, 956KB) Policy Wording (PDF, 956KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 97KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 97KB) Download 
Important Information (PDF, 87KB) Important Information (PDF, 87KB) Download 
NOV (PDF, 89KB) NOV (PDF, 89KB) Download 
Frequently Asked Questions 
Is Select and Cover right for me? 
Think about your personal circumstances, and whether you need 3 or more of the options available.
Make sure you're not duplicating cover. For example, you may already have an annual travel insurance policy that won't run out for months, or your mobile phone package may already include insurance.
If you're looking to be covered for something specific, then check full details of what the policy covers in the Terms and ConditionsTerms and Conditions for Select and Cover This link will open in a new window.
How long does Select and Cover last? 
It runs month-to-month, so you'll never have to worry about your policy running out because you haven't renewed it. If you like, you can change your options on the anniversary of your policy, or can cancel at any time with no exit fee. Just check the Terms and ConditionsTerms and Conditions for Select and Cover This link will open in a new window to see how this works.
Keep in mind, Worldwide Travel cover ends on the anniversary after you reach the age of 70. Starter Life cover ends on the anniversary after you reach the age of 50.
Who counts as family with Select and Cover? 
If you take out a policy it will also cover:
your spouse, domestic or civil partner who lives with you at the same address
any dependent children under 18 years of age who live at home with you
any children under 23 if still in full-time education and living at home with you outside of term time
Do I need to tell HSBC about any pre-existing medical conditions? 
There's no need to complete lengthy medical declarations or make regular disclosures. And in most cases, sudden and unexpected changes will be covered by this Select and Cover policy, whether it’s related to an existing condition or a new condition.
There are some circumstances we won’t be able to cover, based on your health. Each time you travel you should check your circumstances are covered under the ‘Your health' section in the Terms and ConditionsTerms and Conditions for Select and Cover This link will open in a new window. For further support, give us a call on 0345 051 1351.
If we can't cover you, then you may be able to get cover from a specialist insurer. The MoneyHelper has a list of these insurers, you can check its travel directorytravel directory This link will open in a new window.
Please note, you may not be able to find cover for undiagnosed symptoms and you may need to wait until you have a diagnosis before getting cover elsewhere.
Can I change my mind about the cover I choose? 
Yes, you can make unlimited changes to your selection within an initial 30-day cooling off period from the start of your policy.
We’ll also send you an annual reminder to review your policy and check it’s still right for you. For 30 days before your policy anniversary you can make unlimited changes to your selection. Changes will become effective from your policy anniversary.
In between the cooling off period and the anniversary window, you can also add 1 and remove 1 option from your selection, as long as you maintain a minimum of 3 options. The same applies in the periods between each subsequent anniversary window.
You can cancel your policy at any time with no exit fee – just check the Terms and Conditions for Select and CoverTerms and Conditions for Select and Cover This link will open in a new window to see how this works.
Explore more
Already have Select and Cover?
How to make an insurance claim
What to consider when buying insurance
Additional information 
HSBC UK Bank Plc acts as an insurance intermediary for Select and Cover. Motor breakdown insurance is underwritten by RAC. Starter life insurance is underwritten by HSBC Life (UK) Limited. All other Select and Cover options are underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited.
When you log on and enter your online banking credentials to apply, we’ll securely pass your personal information to Aviva, our third party provider. This helps you to build and purchase your Select and Cover policy, and helps us to provide you with a great service.
For more information on how we use your personal information, please read our Privacy Notice (PDF)Privacy Notice (PDF) This link will open in a new window.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follo\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/select-and-cover/
########Top of main content 
Buildings insurance 
We'll cover whatever it costs to repair your home after loss or damage (exclusions apply). 
Insure your home against serious loss or damage 
Our buildings insurance cover could give you the confidence that your home is covered. Get a quote today and apply for a buildings insurance policy, provided by Aviva. 
Get a buildings insurance quote 
Retrieve a quote, or continue with one you were given in the last 90 days.
Retrieve a quote Retrieve a quote This link will open in a new window 
Why get buildings insurance with us? 
Pay monthly 
Pay in regular instalments with no additional charges if you'd like to pay monthly.
24/7 support 
Your UK-based team are available around the clock, whenever you need to make a buildings or contents insurance claim.
Flexible policy 
There’s no cost for changing your cover whenever you need to, but your premium may increase if you add extras.
Refund switching costs 
Get a new policy with us before your current policy ends and we’ll refund any cancellation fees. T&Cs apply. Get a refundGet a refund This link will open in a new window.
What does our buildings insurance cover? 
Costs to repair your home after loss or damage 
We'll cover whatever it costs to repair your home after loss or damage. This could be from a fire, explosion, storm, vandalism, vehicles, water escaping from pipes, theft or falling trees. 
Unlimited buildings cover 
We'll cover the full cost of rebuilding your home up to the same specification as the original building, with no upper limit. 
Water damage 
If you've got water damage from a leaking pipe, we'll find the source of the leak and fix any damage caused. 
Somewhere for you and your pets to stay 
If damage has meant you can't live in your home, we'll find you and your domestic pets somewhere to stay. 
All subject to your policy terms and conditions.
What's not covered by our buildings insurance? 
Any excess on your policy schedule
Damage from any cause of wet or dry rot
Building wear and tear
Loss or damage that happens gradually
Damage that happens after the home has been left unoccupied for longer than the period shown in your policy
Loss or damage caused by domestic animals
Other exclusions apply – please read the General Exclusions section of the policy booklet (PDF, 65KB)policy booklet (PDF, 65KB) This link will open in a new window.
Optional extras 
Choose from a variety of extra cover to make sure your policy protects everything you need it to.
Home emergency cover 
Add home emergency cover for expert help in the event of an emergency with your property.
What does our home emergency cover include? 
Up to £1,000 for labour, parts and materials (including VAT) per incident
Hotel accommodation costs up to £1,000 if you can't live in your home
No excess
£500 boiler contribution for boilers declared beyond repair
Loss of essential services, ie boiler breakdowns
Roof damage following a storm
Plumbing emergencies
Electrical emergency and breakdown
Lost keys or damage to locks, doors or windows
Pest infestation of rats, mice, wasps or hornets
What doesn't our home emergency cover include? 
Emergencies you were already aware of when you bought the cover
Routine maintenance, cleaning and servicing of your property
Air conditioning equipment
Cosmetic damage to your property
Repairs due to wear and tear, eg dripping taps
Breakdown of domestic appliances like washing machines or electric showers
For a full list of events covered and exclusions please read the Home Emergency Cover section of the policy booklet (PDF, 65KB)policy booklet (PDF, 65KB) This link will open in a new window.
Accidental damage cover for buildings 
Add this cover for sudden and unexpected damage to your home including, breaking fixed glass such as a window or hitting a nail through a pipe when doing DIY.
What's not covered by our accidental damage cover for buildings? 
Any excess on your policy
Damage caused by wear and tear, vermin, insects, fungus, the weather or gradual damage
Damage caused by water entering the home
Damage caused by building extensions, repairs, alterations, subsidence, heave or landslip
For a full list of events covered and exclusions please read the Accidental Damage Buildings section of the policy booklet (PDF, 65KB)policy booklet (PDF, 65KB) This link will open in a new window.
Legal expenses cover 
Add this cover to provide you with a lawyer if you need one, and up to £50,000 of legal costs to pursue or defend a wide range of disputes.
What’s covered by legal expense cover? 
The range of disputes covered by legal expenses cover includes: 
personal injury
employment
property
medical negligence
consumer issues.
What’s not covered by legal expense cover? 
Disputing a disciplinary or grievance procedure at work.
Any employer disputes which commenced within the first 30 days of holding this cover.
Personal injury or death claims related to a motorised vehicle you are driving.
Property disputes related to local or national planning policy or law.
The lawyer will assess your prospects of success if you need to make a claim and pursue a dispute. If in their opinion your case would not be successful in court, your expenses may not be covered.
For a full list of what's covered and exclusions please read the Legal Expenses Cover section of the policy booklet (PDF, 65KB)policy booklet (PDF, 65KB) This link will open in a new window.
High-quality home insurance 
5 Star rated by Defaqto 
HSBC Home Insurance is rated 5 Star by Defaqto, the independent financial information business. This means our policy is one of the most comprehensive in the market.
Find out about Defaqto Find out about Defaqto This link will open in a new window 
Get a buildings insurance quote 
Who can apply? 
You can apply if:
you're over the age of 16
your property is in the UK (excluding Channel Islands and Isle of Man)
Policy documents 
HSBC Home Summary of Cover (PDF, 50 KB) HSBC Home Summary of Cover (PDF, 50 KB) Download 
HSBC Home Insura\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/products/buildings/
########Top of main content 
How much life insurance do you need? 
It’s important to consider how much life insurance you need, especially if you have loved ones to support and debts you’d want repaid. 
The amount of life insurance you take out is a personal choice and some people choose to take more cover than others. 
To help you work out how much you might need, think about: 
what you’d want your life insurance to cover 
how long you want to be covered for 
any savings, investments or existing life policies you may have 
how much you can afford to pay for an insurance policy 
What would you want your life insurance to cover? 
Depending on your circumstances, you may need life insurance to:
Look after your children or dependents 
If you have children – whether they’re young or adult dependents – you may want to think about the type of financial support they may need if you weren’t around. This may include childcare costs, day-to-day living expenses or perhaps carer costs. 
The amount of money needed will depend on:
how many children or dependents you have 
how many years they’ll need support for 
According to the Child Poverty Action Group, the basic cost of raising a child until their 18th birthday for a single parent was over £200,000 in 2022.
Support your partner 
If you’re the main earner, the loss of your income could have a big impact on your family’s lifestyle. Look at your regular income after tax, as well as your family’s ongoing expenses, such as food, household bills or rent for example. This can give you an idea of how much they may need, financially. 
If your partner is the main earner, it’s still important to consider your contribution to the household. For example, if you’re a stay-at-home parent, your family may need money to cover childcare costs to enable your partner to go to work.
According to MoneyHelper, the average cost of sending a child under 2 to nursery in the UK is:
£138 per week – part-time (25 hours) 
£264 per week – full-time (50 hours) 
Pay off your mortgage 
If you have a mortgage, the money received from life insurance can be used to repay the debt, so your family doesn’t have to. It’s not compulsory but, if you do have dependents, this can help them cover the mortgage and keep their home. 
The amount of cover needed will depend on:
how much is remaining on your mortgage 
the type of mortgage you have 
Your mortgage balance can be found on your latest statement, through online banking or your mobile banking app. Depending on your repayment terms, you may consider either a level term or decreasing term policy.
Level term vs decreasing term cover 
Research on behalf of HSBC reveals only a third of people in the UK say they fully understand the phrases ‘level cover’ and ‘decreasing term’. After the terms were explained to them, most people (53%) believe ‘level cover’ is the most important consideration when choosing which life insurance policy to purchase.
What is level term cover? 
A level term insurance policy is where the amount of cover stays the same for as long as the policy is in place. So, if you were to die during a fixed period (the term), your family will be paid a pre-agreed sum of money. If you were to die after this period, they’ll be no payout. 
Level cover can help pay everyday living costs, childcare or an interest-only mortgage – where the amount you owe stays the same, and the balance needs to be repaid when the mortgage ends.
What is decreasing term cover? 
A decreasing term insurance policy is where the amount of cover reduces throughout the term of the policy. So, if you were to die during a fixed period (the term), the amount paid to your family will depend on how long has passed since the policy was taken out. If you were to die after this period, they’ll be no payout. 
Decreasing cover is often purchased to help clear a specific debt, such as a repayment mortgage. As this type of debt decreases over time, so will the amount of insurance.
Life insurance calculator 
Our life insurance calculator can help you work out how much cover you need. 
How long do you want to be covered for? 
Once you’ve decided how much you want to cover, you also need to decide how long you want your policy to last.
If you have children to support, you may decide to provide cover until the youngest reaches adulthood and becomes financially independent. This could be 18 or 21 if they go to university.
If you’re covering your partner, you may need to replace some income until they retire or perhaps they’d need support for a few years to adjust. This is where it’s best to talk to each other about how things would change and what they would need.
If you only want to make sure your mortgage is repaid, the length of your policy will need to cover the term remaining on your mortgage. You may have more than one mortgage account, with potentially different end dates, so it’s important to check these. 
Do you have savings, investments, or an existing life policy? 
If you have enough savings or investments available, you may want to deduct this amount from the level of life cover you need. This way, you’re not paying for more insurance than you need. 
You should also consider any life insurance you may already have, through your employer for example. Keep in mind – when you leave your job, you’ll lose this cover.
How much can you afford to pay for an insurance policy? 
While it’s important to financially protect your loved ones, make sure it’s at a level that you can afford. The higher your cover amount, the higher your monthly premiums will be. 
However, other factors will also be considered, such as age and lifestyle. For example, the younger you are, the cheaper your quote will be. 
Help and support with choosing life insurance 
If you need any help with life insurance, you can chat to one of our financial advisers. They’ll be happy to recommend a policy and level of cover that’s right for you and your family. 
Our protection advice is available, without a fee, to UK resid\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/how-much-life-insurance-do-i-need/
########Top of main content 
Preventing cryptocurrency fraud 
	
We've brought in payment limits to help you keep your money safe
		
Cryptocurrency fraud is on the increase 
We’ve taken steps to help protect you from cryptocurrency fraud. This follows a large rise in the number of our customers falling victim to these scams.
Why cryptocurrency can be high risk 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) has warned that investing in cryptocurrency assets generally involves taking very high risks. The value of cryptocurrencies can change very quickly, with all funds invested at risk, so you could lose everything.
Crypto assets are unregulated so if something goes wrong, money held in crypto wallets is not protected by the Financial Ombudsman Service and Financial Services Compensation Scheme. ­
Cryptocurrency payment limits 
The following limits will apply to payments you send to cryptocurrency exchanges using:
your debit card
our digital banking services (online and mobile banking)
our branches and contact centres
Our limits:
Payments – £2,500 for a single transaction and a total of £10,000 in any rolling 30-day period.
Debit cards – £2,500 for a single transaction and a total of £10,000 in any rolling 30-day period.
These limits are applied per customer with transaction values monitored over a 30-day rolling period.
You can still receive payments from cryptocurrency exchanges into your account.
Read more about our payment limitspayment limits This link will open in a new window.
We will continue to refuse credit card payments to purchase cryptocurrency.
More information on fraud and scams 
Find out more about financial scams and how best to avoid them. 
Fraud & Security centre 
Find out how to report unusual activity on your account and get advice on protecting yourself from fraud. 
Cryptocurrency fraud: real life story 
Here's an example of how criminals used cryptocurrencies to try and steal a customer's money. 
Crypto: The basics Crypto: The basics This link will open in a new window 
A guide to crypto basics and their potential risks from the FCA. 
Back to top Back to top Back to start of page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/cryptocurrency/
########Top of main content 
HSBC Fraud and Cyber Awareness app 
Stay on top of the latest fraud trends to protect your money 
Download the app 
HSBC Fraud and Cyber Awareness app 
The HSBC Fraud and Cyber Awareness app keeps you up to date with current scams, fraud trends and guides to help protect you and your money.
Get the latest alerts straight to your phone. You can also share content to your social channels, and test your knowledge with our range of quizzes. 
Download the app 
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
Why use the app?
Scam alerts
Get latest scam warnings sent straight to your phone with tailored push notifications.
Guides and videos
Learn how to stay vigilant about the different ways fraudsters target you.
Test your knowledge
Take short quizzes to put what you’ve learnt into practice.
Reporting fraud
Get support for all your fraud queries.
Frequently asked questions 
I’m not an HSBC customer – can I still use the app? 
Yes, the app is to help everyone. We don't ask for any personal or log on information, other than a few preferences to make sure you see content that's relevant to your location and interests. This means anyone can download and use the app.
Do I need to log on to the app? 
No, we won’t ask you to log on or verify yourself within the app. The app is separate to our mobile banking app. We only ask questions about your preferences to make sure you see content that's relevant to your location and interests.
Will the app update me with current scams? 
Yes, we’ll share insight we have about trending scams straight to your app. We won’t be able to notify you of every ongoing scam, but we will do our best to keep you updated with as much as we can.
You might also be interested in
Fraud guide
Common scams
Received a text?
How to improve your banking security
iPhone, iPad, iPad mini, iPod Touch and Touch ID are trademarks of Apple Inc. App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Android is a trademark of Google LLC. Fraud and Cyber Awareness terms and conditions (PDF)Fraud and Cyber Awareness terms and conditions (PDF) Fraud and Cyber awarness This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/fraud-awareness-app/
########Top of main content 
How to improve your banking security 
Tips to help you keep your money safe 
Take me straight to: 
Update your browser 
Keep your software up to date 
Don't share personal information online 
Don't use public wi-fi or shared computers 
Dispose of paper statements securely 
Be alert to scams 
Don't fall for fake websites 
Beware of fake emails 
Secure your mobile phone 
Protecting your devices 
Explore more 
Update your browser 
Make sure your web browser is up to date. The latest versions offer the best protection against viruses and can warn you about fake websites.
Keep your software up to date 
It's a good idea to install software updates as soon as they become available. Viruses take advantage of bugs, which are often fixed in the free updates that are released. 
Be wary of fake emails about software updates and don't click on any links to them. 
With Windows 10, you can check if your computer is up to date by going to 'Update & Security' in the 'Settings' menu.
Secunia also has a free online service that checks most common programs to see if an update is available.
Don't share personal information online 
What's your mother's maiden name? The first school you went to? Your address? Birthday? Phone number?
All of this information is useful to people who want to steal your identity or break into your online banking account. If you use social networking sites like Facebook, Twitter or Instagram, make sure you're not over-sharing your personal details.
Adjust the privacy settings on each site you use so only people you trust can see what you post.
Please also remember that you must take all reasonable precautions to keep your details safe and prevent any unauthorised use of any cards and security details. If any information forms part of your security details, you should therefore make sure that you do not disclose it to anyone else – see terms and conditions that apply to your account(s) for more detail.
Don't use public wi-fi or shared computers 
Avoid using online banking, e-mail, social networks or shopping sites on public wi-fi or shared computers.
Public computers often don't have adequate protection installed to prevent malware, key loggers and other malicious software that may record your log on details. Don't ask sites to 'remember' your personal information, such as usernames or account details, as they could be accessed by others later on.
If you're searching for a wi-fi connection on your own device, beware of scam wi-fi hotspots that can track your activity if you connect to them.
Dispose of paper statements securely 
When it comes to your personal details, it's not just online security you need to think about. 
Paper statements contain lots of information that's useful to criminals, so make sure you store them securely. Fraudsters may even search your dustbin for documents, so shred statements before throwing them away if you can.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Be alert to scams 
Be wary of deals that sound too good to be true.
Criminals may contact you by email, through websites, by text or by phone with what sounds like an amazing opportunity. They can be very convincing, so it pays to be on your guard and to make sure the offer is genuine.
Signs it's a scam:
Urgency: "Act now, before it's too late".
Unnecessary secrecy: "Don't tell anyone".
Easy money: "We'll pay you just for holding some money in your account".
Big threats: "Your account has been hacked".
Big promises: "You've won the lottery".
A call out of the blue - did you even buy a lottery ticket?
If an attachment looks suspicious, don't open it. Don't install software unless it comes from a website you trust. If it doesn't feel right, take your time to check things over.
If you suspect that there's a problem with your online banking account, you can always call us on the number on the back of your card.
Don't fall for fake websites 
Criminals use fake websites to con people into giving away passwords and bank details. The technical word for this is 'phishing'.
They're good at making their websites look realistic, but there are ways to spot a fake...
Signs it's a scam:
Strange-looking web address.
Poor design, typos or bad spelling.
Asks you to do something unusual.
No padlock in the address bar. 
Security software and an up-to-date web browser can help to block fake websites.
Find out more about phishing.
Beware of fake emails 
Along with fake websites, fake emails are another example of 'phishing'.
A scam email might encourage you to reveal personal or financial details that could be used to access your accounts. They might ask you to make a phone call or reply by email to provide security details.
If you're trying to work out whether an email is genuine, look out for a strange email address, typos / poor spelling and unusual requests. If the email says it's from HSBC, you can also call us to check.
Find out more about phishing.
Secure your mobile phone 
Your mobile phone contains a wealth of personal information about you, including your banking details.
To stay secure, you might want to:
Set a security PIN or use Fingerprint / Face ID to access your phone.
Set your phone to lock automatically if you don't use it for 5 or 10 minutes.
Avoid storing passwords or other sensitive information in your notes or messages.
Avoid saving your home phone number and address under ‘Home’ in your contacts.
It's also wise to be on your guard for text message and voicemail scams, and think twice before tapping on any links.
If you lose your phone report it to your mobile phone provider immediately. Make a note of your phone's IMEI number (dial *#06# to get it). This will make it easier for your phone company to disable a stolen phone.
Protecting your devices 
Follow these housekeeping tips to protect your devices from security threats:
Install antivirus and anti-malware software.
Keep anti-malware and antivirus applications up to date.
Don't click on email links or attachments.
Delete cookies regular\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/what-you-can-do/
########Top of main content 
Freeze or unfreeze your card 
Instantly block your card if you can't find it. If it turns up, you can unblock it and start using it straight away 
Freeze or unfreeze your card 
If you can’t find your card but you’re not sure it’s been lost or stolen, you can place a temporary block on it.
You can easily unblock it if it turns up. If you still can't find it, report it to us if you think it’s been lost or stolen. You can do this 24 hours a day using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app or by logging on to online banking.
Mobile banking app 
1. Log in to the app
Once logged on, select the account the card belongs to.
2. Manage cards
Choose 'View more' and then 'Manage cards'.
3. Freeze or unfreeze card
Select the slider to freeze or unfreeze the card. The freeze stays in place until you remove it.
Online banking 
1.Log on
Once signed in, select the account the card belongs to and then select 'Manage'.
2. Block or unblock card
Choose 'Block or unblock card' from the menu.
3. Select card
Find the card you wish to block or unblock and select 'Block this card' or 'Unblock this card'.
4. Confirm
Confirm the card you wish to block or unblock. All card transactions are blocked until you choose to remove it.
Log on to block or unblock your card Log on to block or unblock your card This link will open in a new window 
Frequently asked questions 
How long will the temporary freeze remain on my card? 
The temporary freeze will remain on your card until you either unfreeze your card or report it lost or stolen.
What transactions will be affected by a temporary freeze 
Freezing your card will affect:
Most contactless and online card payments. We can’t guarantee we’ll be able to freeze all transactions and you’ll still be liable for any that do go through
Cash machine services and withdrawals
Digital wallet transactions and recurring automatic payments using a debit card

Freezing your card won’t affect:
Direct Debits and standing orders
Digital wallet transactions and recurring payments using a credit card
Transactions on any supplementary cards
If you’d like to freeze any supplementary cards, please freeze them separately.
Will temporary freezing my card affect my Direct Debits and standing orders? 
Direct Debits and standing orders won't be affected.
Can I withdraw cash while my card is temporarily frozen? 
No, you can't withdraw cash if a temporary freeze is applied. If you need cash, please visit a branch with ID and speak to a member of staff.
I've found my card. What should I do? 
Good news. Just go to the mobile app or online banking and you can unfreeze your card.
I think my card has been stolen. What should I do? 
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app or online banking immediately and select ‘Report lost or stolen card’. We'll immediately cancel your card and send you a new one, which will have a new card number. You can also call us.
Please take care not to accidentally freeze the new card number. This is displayed immediately after selecting 'Report lost or stolen card' on your account page.
Useful links
Lost, stolen or damaged cards
What to do if you've lost your card or it's not working.
PIN services
Forgotten your PIN, entered it incorrectly or need to change it?
Fraud and security
Report a suspected fraud or learn how to protect yourself online.
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/block-unblock/
########Top of main content 
Card security 
Protect your card and PIN from fraud 
Contents 
ATM fraud prevention
Protecting your card and PIN
Bogus courier scam
Travelling abroad
Card fraud
Using your card for online purchases
ATM fraud prevention 
Being vigilant will keep you protected from fraudsters: 
never divulge your PIN to anyone, not even the bank or Police
always use your hand as a shield while entering your PIN to keep it a secret
be aware of others around when using an ATM, particularly at night, and avoid using an ATM if suspicious looking individuals are hanging around
do not take advice from 'helpful' strangers that happen to be standing near an ATM, especially if your card has been unexpectedly retained
if anything looks suspicious or unusual when you are at the ATM then do not use it. Instead either alert a member of staff if available or move a reasonable distance from the machine and call the Police
if you realise the ATM has been tampered with after you have inserted your card, contact HSBC while still standing at the cash machine if it is safe to do so
contact HSBC immediately if your card is unexpectedly retained by an ATM and store HSBC's phone number into your mobile
on completing a transaction, discreetly put your money and card away before leaving the cash machine
check your statements regularly for any transactions you do not recognise and report them to HSBC immediately
Back to top 
Protecting your card and PIN 
Keep your information safe:
do not let your card out of sight, especially when making purchases in restaurants, bars and petrol stations
ensure that you're the only person who knows your PIN – do not write it down or store it in a way that other people could understand and access 
never disclose your PIN to anyone, not even a Police officer or a bank employee (HSBC staff would never ask for your PIN)
contact HSBC immediately if a courier says they have come to collect your card, PIN, online banking secure key or cash
always use your hand as a shield whilst entering your PIN to keep it secret
only carry the cards you need
never leave your handbag or wallet unattended
pay attention to card expiry dates. If your replacement card hasn't arrived, call HSBC to check the situation with your new card
Find out more information on your PIN.
Back to top 
Bogus courier scam 
Elderly and vulnerable members of the public have been receiving unsolicited calls from fraudsters purporting to be from their bank or couriers working on behalf of their bank. On occasion they also claim to be Police officers working on a fraud involving the bank or one of their employees.
The fraudsters telephone customers on their landline claiming that their debit or credit card has been used fraudulently. In order to gain customers trust the fraudsters tell them to ring their bank on the telephone number printed on the reverse of their card to ensure the call is genuine. The fraudster pretends to hang up the call, however, the fraudster keeps the telephone line open, so even though the customer thinks they are calling their bank, the call does not go through. Instead they are still unwittingly connected to the fraudster.
The fraudster, who is now pretending to be your Bank, will say that the card needs to be collected and will ask the customer to key in their PIN or write it down and put it in an envelope with the card, cash and their online banking secure key, before sending a courier to collect the items. The customer will be advised that the card is going to the bank to be replaced, but is actually delivered to the fraudster. Once in possession of the card, the PIN and the victim's full bank details, the fraudsters attempt to withdraw all available funds from the customer's account.
Remember:
HSBC will NEVER send a courier to your home to collect your card, PIN, online banking secure key or cash. Contact us and your local Police immediately if this happens
do not divulge your PIN to anyone
we may call you as part of our fraud detection purposes to verify whether a transaction is genuine or not. We will never ask you to divulge full security information or advise you that we are sending a courier to collect this information
with any suspicious or unexpected call, always verify the call, by checking the number exists from an independent source - such as a phone book and if the caller asks you to make a call, use a different phone line (where possible). Where a second phone line is not available, try calling a friend on the line first. A fraudster will find it difficult to impersonate a voice that is known to you. If in doubt, don't call back.
Back to top 
Travelling abroad 
Reduce the chance of being inconvenienced when using your cards abroad:
ensure we have up to date contact details for you before travelling abroad. Particularly your mobile phone number and email address
take a note of our lost and stolen number in case of an emergency (+44 1442 422929). We recommend you store it in your mobile
keep your cards with you at all times, or in a safe place.
Our lines are open 24 hours a day including Bank Holidays.
Back to top 
Card fraud 
We need you to help us prevent card fraud:
shred all documents (receipts, letters etc.) that contain your name, address or other account and personal information
when registering a memorable name, avoid using your mother's maiden name or children's names etc. - use an alternative which cannot be easily guessed by fraudsters
check your statements regularly for any transactions you do not recognise and report them to HSBC immediately
do not respond to phishing emails - HSBC will never send you an email asking you to disclose personal information, bank details, passwords or PIN
do not share your personal information unless you are confident that you know who you are speaking to
pay attention to card expiry dates. If your replacement card hasn't arrived, call HSBC to check the status of your new card.
Please refer to your account's general terms and conditionsterms a\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/card-security/
########Top of main content 
How a fraudster might contact you 
Find out how criminals typically get in touch, and what you should do if you're targeted 
Take me straight to: 
Phone calls (vishing) 
Text messages (smishing) 
Emails (phishing) 
Phone calls (vishing) 
If you receive an unexpected phone call about money - there's a good chance it's a scam. 
Scammers may claim to be a business or authority you know and trust - like your bank or the police. They may know personal details about you and can even make their phone number look authentic using a technique called ‘number spoofing’. 
But if someone calls you out of the blue and asks you to move money or share your account details, just hang up. 
We'll never call and ask you for personal details or full passwords, PINs or security codes.
A scammer may ask you to:
transfer money to a 'safe account' or a known beneficiary as your account has been compromised
withdraw cash and hand it over to the police for investigation
press a number on your keypad to speak with a customer service representative (a fraudster in disguise)
share personal or financial details
If you tell the caller you suspect a scam, they may advise you to call the number on the back of your bank card to check. Be careful, as this can be part of the scam. A scammer can play a fake dial tone and keep the line open, so even after you dial another number, you're actually still talking to them.
If you want to call an organisation to check if a request is genuine:
Hang up the phone properly and wait 15 seconds.
Make sure the line is fully disconnected.
Wait another 15 seconds before beginning a new call, or use a different phone.
Contact the organisation using a number you know is genuine - get it from their official website and check it across multiple sources if you can. If you need to call HSBC you can contact us on 03457 404 404.
Text messages (smishing) 
Scammers send fake text messages pretending to be your bank, or another legitimate organisation. Their goal is to make you reply with your personal or financial details so they can steal money from your account. 
Typically, these messages will:
encourage you to take urgent action by tapping a link or making a call
ask you to verify new payees, transactions or devices
look and sound like genuine messages but with new wording added
come from unknown mobile numbers
Banks and other genuine organisations will never ask for your full PIN, password or banking codes. And we’ll never text you a link to our online banking log on page.
If you've received a suspicious text:
don’t tap any links
don’t download any attachments 
don’t reply
delete the message
contact the organisation using a phone number you've verified, or visit their website
If the message claims to be from HSBC and you're not sure it's genuine, compare it to our examples of real vs fake texts. 
You can also screenshot the message and send the image to us at phishing@hsbc.com.
Emails (phishing) 
Phishing emails will look like they're from a legitimate authority or organisation, or perhaps a retailer you've bought something from in the past.
Typically, they’ll:
encourage you to click on a website link
contain spelling and grammar errors
urge you to take action quickly and threaten to close your account if you don’t respond
pretend that you’re owed money
ask you to share confidential information, such as your online banking details, passwords, account numbers or PINs
include instructions on how to reply or verify your account – like completing a form attached to the email
If you receive a suspicious email:
don’t click on any links
don’t open any attachments 
don’t reply
If you're not sure, contact the organisation using a phone number you know is genuine, or visit their website.
If you've received an email from HSBC and you think it might be a scam:
forward it to us at phishing@hsbc.com
delete the scam email and empty the recycle bin on your device
Get in touch 
If you've received a suspicious text or email, send it to us at phishing@hsbc.com. If a fraudster has taken your money or gained access to your account contact us on 03457 404 404.
Explore more
Latest scam warnings
New scams emerge all the time. Stay in the loop with our frequently updated list.
What's the difference between fraud and a scam?
Learn more about the different types of fraud and what you can do to protect yourself.
Common scams
Don't get caught out by a scam. Find out how to spot them and what you can do to avoid them.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/fraud-guide/common-methods/
########Top of main content 
How to avoid being tricked by scams 
Are you ready for whatever fraudsters have up their sleeves? 
Understanding the art of deception
We've teamed up with professional magician Troy von Scheibner to see what fraud scams have in common with a magician’s tricks.
As a professional magician, Troy's aim is to entertain using a specialist set of skills. However, these techniques can also be used by fraudsters to trick people.
Fraudsters are playing mind games on us, designed to gain our trust and pressure us into handing over personal and financial information. But, by understanding how their tricks work, we can make sure we don’t get caught out. Check out the video to see what happened when we hit the streets with Troy.
How to spot fraudsters' tricks 
Someone contacts you out of the blue, by call, text or email 
They claim to be from a trusted organisation, like your bank, utility provider or the police 
They can sound genuine, as they may already have gathered information about you online or if you’ve responded to a fraudulent SMS 
They often put you under pressure to do something without you having time to think it through properly 
Calls, texts and emails may appear genuine, but their actions and requests are not 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript purchase-scam-video-transcript This link will open in a new window 
Don't miss a trick 
Stay alert, stay safe 
Remember, there are things we will never ask for, such as:
the transfer of funds to a different account for 'safekeeping‘
one-time passcodes either generated securely or sent by email or text
online banking details
your card’s 4-digit PIN
your credit or debit cards, cheque books or cash
Please contact us immediately if you think you've been a victim of a scam.
Stop, challenge, protect 
There are many different types of scams out there.
Most of them start with someone contacting you out of the blue, often claiming to be from a trusted organisation.
Here’s what to do if you’re contacted unexpectedly by phone, email or text message:
Stop - if it’s unexpected, be suspicious. Take a moment to stop and think before parting with your personal or financial information.
Challenge - could it be fake? It’s OK to reject, refuse or ignore any requests, or simply say ‘No’.
Protect - don’t click on unfamiliar links or call numbers in texts or emails. Instead, check they’re genuine by going to the official website.
If you’re worried you’ve been scammed already, get in touch with us here: 
Live Chat 
To chat with one of our agents, select the Chat tab on the right hand side of the page. 
If you can't see the Chat option, no agents are available at the moment. Please use the chat feature in the mobile app or try one of our other contact options.
Contact us by phone 
Call us directly on 03457 404 404
We’re working hard to protect you against fraud – but there are lots of ways you can help to protect yourself too. For more information on other types of fraud, how to protect yourself and what HSBC is doing to protect you, visit our fraud guide.
Learn about fraud and scams
Latest scam warnings
New scams emerge all the time. Stay in the loop with our frequently updated list.
Fraud Guide
Find out more about other types of fraud, how to protect yourself and what HSBC is doing to protect you.
Common scams
Don't get caught out by a scam. Find out how to spot them and what you can do to avoid them.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/purchase-scams/
########Top of main content 
Top tips for planning a wedding 
Planning your wedding is an exciting time. 
But with so much to think about, from visiting venues to choosing suppliers, it can be difficult to know where to start.
Here are some wedding planning tips to help you prepare for your big day.
Set a budget 
The average cost of a wedding in the UK is now £18,400, according to Hitched according to Hitched This link will open in a new window. But before you start paying for anything, work out a budget that suits you.
Some of your larger costs may be:
venue hire 
food and drinks 
photography 
flowers 
transport 
music and entertainment 
You’ll also want to think about outfits for yourselves and the wedding party, as well as rings and a honeymoon. 
If any family members are helping to cover the costs, chat with them about what they’re comfortable spending. It’s also worth talking to any family or friends who are offering to arrange flowers, decorate the venue or bake the wedding cake, for example. You may need to put some money aside to cover their expenses. 
Make a list of wedding priorities 
Work out what’s important to you and your partner when it comes to your big day. This can be anything from a certain venue to a specific band. 
It can help you remain focused, prioritise your spending and stick to your budget. For example, if you want a large guest list, you may decide to compromise in other ways and choose a cheaper venue.
Do you know any newlyweds you can ask for advice? They’ll be able to give you an honest idea of what to expect and what to focus on.
Start saving 
Try to build up some money in a savings account as your ‘wedding fund’. If you can't save the full amount, there are borrowing options you could look at.
These include taking out a loan, which you can repay over several months. You could also get a 0% interest credit card if you think you'll be able to repay within the interest-free period. Remember, the more you’re able to save, the less you’ll have to borrow and the less you may end up repaying in interest.
Get yourself organised 
Whether you’re getting married in 12 months or 3 years, start doing things early so you have plenty of time to find the best suppliers for your day and your budget. 
Use checklists, spreadsheets or planners – anything that helps you keep track of tasks, costs, timings and contact details, for example. 
When you do speak to suppliers, compare packages and contracts carefully. Look at any extra fees and restrictions as well as the basic price. For example, some venues might ask for a minimum spend or a large deposit. 
Sort out your guest list 
It doesn’t have to be an exact number, but having an idea of how many people will be coming to your wedding will help you find the right venue. You’ll also be able to budget more effectively as you’ll have a clearer idea of how much food and drink you’ll need.
Work together 
Planning a wedding is a team effort, so don’t forget your other half when you’re choosing a venue or making other big decisions. It’s also a good idea to work through your budget together to help you stay on track with all your costs.
Make it legal 
With so much going on, it can be easy to forget one of the most essential steps – making your marriage legal. You need to give notice of your marriage or civil partnership at your local register office at least 29 days before the ceremony takes place at least 29 days before the ceremony takes place This link will open in a new window.
Send ‘save the date’ announcements 
Give everyone plenty of notice of your upcoming wedding (typically 6 to 12 months).
Guests can avoid booking holidays or making other plans if they’ve received a ‘save the date’ announcement. It’ll also give anyone travelling to your wedding plenty of time to organise themselves.
‘Save the dates’ are traditionally sent out as cards but you can also do it online. This can help you save money on printing and postage. 
Manage your money after the wedding 
Managing your finances after the big day is important. If you haven’t already set up a joint bank account, you might want to think about doing so. It can be an efficient way to pay bills and other expenses.
It’s important to make a plan to repay debt. This might be because you’ve used your credit card or overdraft as a buffer, or you’ve taken out a loan to cover some of the wedding expenses. 
Opening a joint savings account can also help you rebuild your savings and provide a safe place to keep any money you receive as a wedding present. 
Back to top 
What next? 
Money saving tips for couples 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to have a baby on a budget 
Merging your money 
How to open a joint bank account\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/new-beginnings/getting-married/tips-for-planning-a-wedding/
########Top of main content 
How to have a baby on a budget 
You don’t need a lot of money to be an amazing parent. Most things that babies need – love, care and attention – are free. 
But the more you can plan ahead, the better prepared you'll be for your new arrival.
These budgeting and saving tips can help you get ready for starting a family.
Make a list of the baby items you might need 
It can help to make a list of everything you think you’ll need for your baby’s arrival. The NHS has a list of recommended baby items list of recommended baby items This link will open in a new window to help you get started. These include:
a car seat (if the baby will travel in a car) 
a cot 
a pram 
clothing, bedding and blankets 
baby bottles (if bottle feeding) 
nappies 
Make sure your car seat and cot meet safety standards. 
Work out how much the baby items will cost 
Prices of baby products can vary, of course. For example:
a pram can range from £100 to over £2,000 
a cot can range from £70 to £700 
the average cost of a car seat is around £100 to £150 
As long as the products meet the relevant safety standards, don’t feel like you need to choose the most expensive options – aim to buy what you can afford. 
Use the list you’ve created to work out how much you think you’ll need for the essential items and expenses. MoneyHelper has a baby budget calculator baby budget calculator This link will open in a new window to help you. 
Remember, you can keep many of the costs down by:
buying second-hand items from online marketplaces 
borrowing items from family and friends 
making the most of free products, samples and vouchers offered by some shops and brands 
shopping around and taking advantage of sales 
re-selling items you no longer need 
using your local library for free books or parent and baby classes 
Create a budget 
Once you know how much you’ll need, consider how you’ll cover the costs. Changes to your income and extra expenses can present a big financial challenge. 
Creating a budget can help you feel more prepared, so you have one less thing to worry about. 
Think about how much you'd need to put aside a month to meet your goal. If you can meet this amount from your current budget, that’s great. If not, you may want to cut back.
You might need to look at your outgoings to see if there are areas where you could save money. For example, you could start small by trying to reduce the amount you spend on food shopping or reviewing your subscriptions. Or you could think about making bigger changes like switching energy supplier.
As the due date approaches, you may find yourself doing fewer of your usual activities. If this frees up money, you could put it aside to cover some of the one-off or ongoing costs of having a baby.
Put money aside each month 
If you’re working, you can make the most of your full salary by putting aside money each month before your baby is born. 
You may decide to use this money to buy some things in advance. That way, you can avoid having to buy everything in the last month of pregnancy. For example, you may want to save money for a car seat in the second trimester and a cot in the third trimester. 
Some shops allow you to put down a deposit or pay monthly on some of the more expensive items. They may also hold bulkier items for you, such as prams, until your baby is born. 
Build up your savings 
If you have time on your side, building up your savings can also provide extra support if one partner is planning to take maternity or paternity leave. And, if you can, try to carry on saving after the baby arrives. 
It’s also good to have an emergency fund – ideally 3 to 6 months’ worth of living expenses to cover unexpected costs, but anything you can put aside is a bonus. This is even more important when you have a family to take care of. 
Explore: Saving for your children’s future
Apply for benefits you’re entitled to 
It’s important to apply for benefits you’re entitled to, so you don’t miss out. 
If you’re taking time off work to have a baby, you may be eligible for the following:
Statutory maternity pay (SMP)Statutory maternity pay (SMP) This link will open in a new window 
This usually starts when you take your maternity leave and is paid for up to 39 weeks.
Paternity pay or paid leavePaternity pay or paid leave This link will open in a new window 
You may be eligible if your partner’s having a baby, adopting a child or having a baby through a surrogacy arrangement. 
Paid time off for antenatal carePaid time off for antenatal care This link will open in a new window 
This can include medical appointments, but also parenting classes if recommended by a doctor or midwife.
Maternity allowanceMaternity allowance This link will open in a new window 
If you don’t qualify for statutory maternity pay, you may be eligible for maternity allowance. Payments can start 11 weeks before your baby is due. 
Extra help from the governmentExtra help from the government This link will open in a new window 
Other benefits can include a Sure Start maternity grant of £500 to help towards the costs of having a child.
Tax-free childcareTax-free childcare This link will open in a new window 
You may be eligible to get help with your childcare costs if you return to work after having a baby. You can get up to £2,000 a year (£500 every 3 months) for each of your children, to help cover the cost of childcare. 
If you’re pregnant or have just had a baby, you can also keep costs down by getting free prescriptions and NHS dental care with a maternity exemption certificate maternity exemption certificate This link will open in a new window. 
Keep in mind – the amount you can claim will depend on your eligibility and individual circumstances. The government sets family benefits - and rules may be subject to change in the future. 
Billions of pounds of government support and allowances are going unclaimed every year, according to the experts at entitledto entitledto This link will open in a new window.
You can fin\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/new-beginnings/expanding-your-family/having-a-baby-on-a-budget/
########Top of main content 
Managing money as a couple 
Combining your finances with your partner can be an efficient way to pay bills and cover household or family expenses. 
Before you merge your money, it’s important to look at the pros and cons of opening different types of accounts together.
Joint current accounts 
A joint current account can be useful for handling shared expenses with your partner.
If you’re both earning, you can decide whether you’ll each pay in your full salary or just part of it. It’s best to agree this before opening a joint account.
If you do open a joint current account, there are some things you need to bear in mind. For example, if one of you makes the account overdrawn, you’ll both be responsible for repaying the money. You’ll also lose some privacy, as you'll both be able to see what’s happening on the account.
Joint savings accounts 
If you want to build up some savings together, opening a joint savings account can be a way to earn interest and separate your money from your everyday spending.
Like with a joint current account, there are risks involved when opening a savings account with someone. For example, if your partner takes money out of the account and spends it on something you’re not happy with, you won’t necessarily be able to get the money back.
Borrowing together 
Taking out a joint loan or another form of joint debt can be useful for paying for something you need quickly if you don’t have time to save up for it. 
Remember, you’ll both be responsible for paying back the money. If one of you stops doing so for whatever reason, the other person will still be responsible for making the full payment. 
When it comes to a credit card, you can add an extra cardholder, but the main credit card account holder will be responsible for paying the amount due.
When you borrow money together, your credit history will also be linked. This means if you borrow money in the future, in your own name, the lender can take into account the other person’s credit score as well as your own. 
What next? 
You don’t need to merge all your finances if you don’t want to, or feel you’re not ready. 
You can also start slowly, perhaps by keeping your own current accounts and using a joint account as a place to pay bills from. If you do want to merge your money, or some of it, opening a joint bank account may be a good next step.
Back to top 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to open a joint bank account 
How to save money as a couple 
Pros and cons of borrowing money together\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/new-beginnings/getting-married/merging-your-money/
########Top of main content 
Day to Day Banking 
Priority day-to-day banking, with benefits 
Discover HSBC Premier’s premium range of banking services 
Your hard work has resulted in a life full of choices and challenges. So, when it comes to managing your financial needs, you deserve that same hard work from us. That’s why the HSBC Premier Bank Account includes exclusive access to a range of preferential banking services and rewards to help you manage your day-to-day banking. All for no monthly fee.
Apply for HSBC Premier: 
To open a Premier account, you must meet certain financial and other criteria.
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for HSBC Premier 
Preferential rates and terms
Preferential terms on HSBC personal loans1, 2
6.4% APR representative for Premier Personal Loans between £10,000 to £30,000
Preferential mortgage terms on selected mortgage products1
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Your home or property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage. All credit applications are subject to status, our lending criteria and an assessment of the circumstances of the applicant.
1 Certain features and benefits are subject to status and meeting HSBC's proof of UK address requirements.
2 Preferential rates compared to our Bank Account and Bank Account Pay Monthly products, and for arranged overdrafts also compared to our Advance Bank Account. Preferential loan rates compared to our standard loan rates.
Credit cards that reward you
Exclusive access to a choice of two credit cards that provide travel benefits and reward points every time you spend.
Earn points on every £1 spent, and redeem with our exclusive rewards programme
World class travel, dining, shopping and entertainment offers
Both of our cards provide worldwide security protection to allow you to shop in confidence wherever you may be
HSBC Premier World Elite Mastercard
Representative example
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 59.3% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Annual fee: £195
HSBC Premier Credit Card
Representative example
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative: 23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
All credit applications are subject to status
Banking made easier – service and support
As an HSBC Premier customer, you will have access to a range of relationship management services to help you get the most out of HSBC Premier and your finances
Your HSBC Premier Debit and Credit card are contactless and you can add them to Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay
Manage your money 24/7 with online banking or securely on the move with our mobile banking app or with Premier's telephone banking service7 , which is open 08:00 – 20:00 every day
Worldwide Travel Insurance5 for you and your family (if under the age of 70). To be eligible you must be resident in the UK, registered with a Doctor in the UK and liable for local taxes
5 Includes Channel Islands and Isle of Man. Provided by Aviva Insurance Limited, terms and conditions apply.
7 Our 24-hour online banking service and mobile banking app are subject to scheduled maintenance periods. Our telephone banking lines are open 08:00 - 20:00 every day.
Eligibility criteria 
HSBC Premier is available to you if you meet ONE of the following eligibility criteria:
Income and product
Have an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and 1 of the following with HSBC UK: a mortgage, an investment, life insurance or a protection product.
You'll also need to pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account.
Savings or investments
Have savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC UK (within 6 months of opening your account if you're new to HSBC, or before you open your account if you're an existing customer).
You'll also need to pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account.
International Premier
Hold and qualify for HSBC Premier in another country or region.
If you're looking for a sole account (not a joint account), you can apply online in minutes below.
Your application is subject to a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK).
Please review our complete eligibility criteria before applying 
HSBC Premier Bank Account eligibility criteria 
If you'd like to open an HSBC Premier Account, please ensure you fulfil all the following criteria:
You are 18 years or older
Your residential address is within the EU, or, if you live outside the EU, you can still apply for a HSBC Premier account subject to local rules and regulations and meeting the UK proof of address
You can provide us with certified proof of your identity and address and one month's bank statements from your current bank (translated into English if appropriate)
If you are resident in the UK, you are happy for us to undertake a credit register search
In order to qualify for lending, savings and travel insurance benefits and preferential rates you will need to be a UK resident. This is subject to status and meeting HSBC's proof of UK address requirement.
For eligibility purposes, please note: HSBC in the UK includes Jersey, Guernsey or Isle of Man for CIIOM, and excludes M&S Bank, first direct and HSBC Expat. For the second criteria listed above (‘an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK’), in the case of a joint account, at least one of the parties must have an individual annual income of at least £75,000. The investment, life insurance or protection products also include those purchased through one of HSBC's advisers.
HSBC Premier Travel Insurance eligibility criteria 
Are you under 70 years of age when your trip starts? Note: When you reach 70, you will no longer be covered by HSBC Premier Travel Insurance.
Are you a resident of the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are you registered w\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/day-to-day-banking/
########Top of main content 
Your home and family 
Build your financial future and protect what matters 
Planning for a life full of life 
With HSBC Premier, your whole family can thrive, taking advantage of a range of exclusive benefits that allow you to lead your full life. These range from preferential rates on selected mortgage products to children’s accounts. There are family benefits not just in the UK, but worldwide as well. 
Apply for HSBC Premier: 
To open a Premier account, you must meet certain financial and other criteria.
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for HSBC Premier 
Your home
Premier Mortgages for you and your family – preferential service and preferential terms on selected mortgages for Premier customers, your children and grandchildren 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your property.
Your property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Your children
HSBC Premier Children’s Accounts give your child the freedom to manage their own money with your guidance. Includes contactless debit card from age 11
Looking after your family abroad
Worldwide Travel Insurance2 for you and your family (if under the age of 70). To be eligible you must be resident in the UK, registered with a doctor in the UK and liable for local taxes
Global Safety Net can help keep your children safe abroad, whether they’re on holiday or in education
Global Wi-Fi with the HSBC Premier Credit Card, connecting up to four devices at over one million hotspots worldwide – handy for helping your children stay connected.
2Includes Channel Islands and Isle of Man. Provided by Aviva Insurance Limited, terms and conditions apply.
Premier Family Financial Advice
Our Financial Advice3 considers both you and your family. Whether your dream is to retire in style, put your children through university or protect your loved ones, our Financial Advisors could show you the steps you might take to start building the future you want, our Financial Advisers can provide you with a bespoke financial plan
Learn more about Premier Financial Advice
We offer restricted advice, meaning we only offer limited types of products from a limited number of companies, including HSBC. Fees apply. Financial eligibility criteria apply
3Available to customers who are residents in the UK, Channel Islands and Isle of Man. 
Eligibility criteria 
HSBC Premier is available to you, if you pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account and have either:
savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or
an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK: a mortgage, investment, life insurance or protection product.
Or if you’ve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another country or region.
Please review our complete eligibility criteria before applying 
HSBC Premier Bank Account eligibility criteria 
If you'd like to open an HSBC Premier Account, please ensure you fulfil all the following criteria:
You are 18 years or older
Your residential address is within the EU, or, if you live outside the EU, you can still apply for a HSBC Premier account subject to local rules and regulations and meeting the UK proof of address
You can provide us with certified proof of your identity and address and one month's bank statements from your current bank (translated into English if appropriate)
If you are resident in the UK, you are happy for us to undertake a credit register search
In order to qualify for lending, savings and travel insurance benefits and preferential rates you will need to be a UK resident. This is subject to status and meeting HSBC's proof of UK address requirement.
For eligibility purposes, please note: HSBC in the UK excludes M&S Bank, first direct and HSBC Expat. For the second criteria listed above (‘an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK’), in the case of a joint account, at least one of the parties must have an individual annual income of at least £75,000. The investment, life insurance or protection products also include those purchased through one of HSBC's advisers.
HSBC Premier Travel Insurance eligibility criteria 
Are you under 70 years of age when your trip starts? Note: When you reach 70, you will no longer be covered by HSBC Premier Travel Insurance.
Are you a resident of the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are you registered with a doctor in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man and liable to pay local taxes?
Are you going to start and finish your trip in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are there any dependent children aged under 18 at the start of the trip or under 23 if they are in full-time education and live with you outside term time? (Children will only be covered when travelling with the account holder or their domestic partner, or whilst travelling abroad on their own to visit and stay with close relatives for the duration of the trip.)
You will need to call the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline before booking your trip if you or any insured person in the last 12 months has been prescribed medication, have received or are awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations, been referred to a specialist, or admitted to hospital for any condition not listed on the accepted conditions list in the 'Your Health' section in the policy booklet. You should also tell us before you travel if there have been any changes to your health or you have been referred to a consultant/specialist or admitted to hospital. Call the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline on 0800 051 7457. Lines are open from 8:00 to 21:00 every day except Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day.
There is no cover for undiagnosed symptoms or any claim where you knew at the time of opening your HSBC Premier Bank Account or booking your trip (whichever is later) that you or your travelling companion may be unable to travel or m\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/home-family/
########Top of main content 
Student Credit Card 
Enjoy a purpose-built card for existing HSBC Student Bank account holders 
You could use your card to cover unexpected expenses and build a credit history while you study. Only available to HSBC Student Bank Account customers. No annual fee. Representative 18.9% APR (variable).
Credit is subject to status, affordability and terms and conditions. Please read the important documents before applying.
Representative example
Purchase rate18.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative18.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £500
Start application 
Key benefits of a Student Credit Card 
Up to £500 credit limit 
The Student Credit Card could provide up to £500 credit, depending on your situation.
No annual fee 
Good news! There's no annual fee for the Student Credit Card.
Enjoy 24/7 worldwide assistance 
Help is at hand if your card is lost or stolen. Call our dedicated support team about getting an emergency cash advance.
Your Student Credit Card also comes with 
Use your credit card abroad 
You can use your HSBC credit card in all countries and regions supported by the Visa and Mastercard networks. Fees apply, and non-HSBC cash machines may also charge a fee. 
No-fuss card management 
Use online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app to check your balance, make payments, freeze your card, and stay in control. 
Purchase protection 
Section 75 protects credit card purchases of £100 to £30,000 if the supplier breaches a contract, or misrepresents goods. 
Go digital 
All HSBC credit cards are contactless and can be used with a digital wallet. For immediate access to spending, you can add your card to Apple Pay or Google Pay directly from the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app before your new card arrives. 
Things to know 
Please read the important documents before applying.
Who can apply? 
You can apply if you:
are over 18
are a UK resident
hold a HSBC Student Bank AccountHSBC Student Bank Account go to Student Bank Account
Important documents 
Summary Box (PDF, 53KB) Summary Box (PDF, 53KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Download 
Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Download 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Credit Card Terms & Conditions (PDF, 1.26MB) Download 
Ready to apply for a Student Credit Card? 
Existing customers 
On your mobile device? If you've downloaded our app and have an HSBC Student Bank Account, you can apply now by selecting 'Apply in app'.
Apply in app Apply in app for a credit card 
If you're on a desktop, scan the QR code with your mobile device.
More ways to apply 
Apply in browser 
If you have an HSBC Student Bank Account and you're registered for online banking, you can start your application right away.
Log on and apply Log on and apply This link will open in a new window 
Register for online banking 
Apply in branch 
It’s usually easiest to apply through the app or online banking, but if you need support you can visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application.
Please bring your mobile phone with you (or a similar device, like a tablet) if you have one.
Find your nearest branch 
You might also be interested in
Not the right card for you?
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one that matches your needs.
Types of credit cards
Get to know the differences between the main types of credit cards and how they could match your needs.
How to avoid credit card charges
Get to know the different types of credit card charges and how you can reduce the amount you pay.
Standards of Lending Practice 
HSBC adheres to the standards of lending practice guidelines.
Additional information 
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers and purchases will revert to the standard variable rate.
Balances can’t be transferred from all cards, for example those issued by members of HSBC Group, including HSBC UK, first direct and M&S Bank.
If you have an HSBC UK credit card, you’re eligible to apply for another if you haven’t applied for an HSBC credit card within the past 6 months, and the card isn’t the one you currently have.
Please note, if you currently hold a Classic, Student, Purchase Plus, or Balance Transfer Credit Card with us, you will not be eligible for this product.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/student/
########Top of main content 
Wealth management services 
Get the tools and expertise to manage your finances how you want 
Focus on your personal wealth aspirations 
HSBC offers you tailored wealth management strategies to help you reach your goals.
A Wealth Manager will work closely with you and a team of experts to give you a range of financial, insurance and wealth management solutions - so you can plan for your future.11 view footnote 1
We offer restricted advice, meaning we only offer limited types of products from a limited number of companies including HSBC.22 view footnote 2 Fees apply for these services. Financial eligibility criteria apply. 
Our wealth management services 
Financial Advice Service 
Your Wealth Manager is also your fully accredited financial adviser, and will develop a deep understanding of your bigger picture. They'll offer advice tailored to you, in areas including:
managing and growing your wealth
planning your retirement
protecting you and your family
passing on your wealth
Investment risk: The value of investments, and any income received from them, can fall as well as rise and you may not get back what you invested. 
Tax advisory service 
The EY tax advisory service aims to support you to manage your tax affairs with:
specialist tax advice if you're changing residency by either moving to or away from UK, and advice on regulatory changes
an independent relationship with EY
a named tax consultant as your personal contact
Tax services: EY can provide tax advice directly to you at a discount off of their standard price list. Terms and conditions apply. The benefit of tax planning will depend on your individual circumstances and tax rules may change in the future. 
Discretionary investment services 
Whether you want to build a new portfolio or transfer an existing one across, our investment managers will take care of the day-to-day management, so you can focus on getting greater returns from life.11 view footnote 1
start with a minimum of £250,000
benefit from automatic ISA funding
quarterly reports including market updates and trading commentaries
receive annual tax summaries
access the value and breakdown of your portfolio via Personal Internet Banking
Investment risk: The value of investments, and any income received from them, can fall as well as rise and you may not get back what you invested. 
Retirement planning 
Whatever stage of life you're at, our experts will review and support your needs to help you plan for your retirement dreams – whether it's relaxing in your retirement home or spending more time with your family.
Insurance solutions 
Your Wealth Manager will provide insurance solutions adapted to your needs, whether you're looking to protect yourself and your loved ones, or your home and belongings. Our personal financial plans will consider all eventualities for your peace of mind.
Plus, if your life protection policy requires underwriting, you'll have a dedicated underwriter to manage your application. Choose from:
HSBC Stand-Alone Protection Advice Service
Your Wealth Manager will evaluate your protection needs and provide written recommendations suited to you.
HSBC Life Insurance
Get life, critical illness and income protection policies, provided by HSBC Life (UK) Limited.
HSBC Home Insurance (Aviva Distinct)
Protect your valuables over £80,000, or a buildings rebuild cost of over £500,000. Terms and conditions, limitations and exclusions apply.
For protection policies, the tax treatment of the policy benefits may change in the future. Insurance policies are subject to terms, conditions, restrictions and exclusions.
Already a client? 
For wealth advice, please contact your Wealth Manager directly. 
For anything else, you can call the team on 03457 70 70 70 from 08:00 to 20:00.
If you haven't already, unlock your exclusive lifestyle benefits with HSBC Concierge services.
Using your concierge service 
Explore more 
Exclusive products and services
Your dedicated team
Lifestyle experiences
Important information 
1 Our discretionary investment services are not available to customers receiving advice in the Channel Islands or Isle of Man.
2 HSBC in the UK excludes M&S Bank, first direct and HSBC Expat.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/jade/wealth-management/
########Top of main content 
Our products and services 
Discover how we can take your finances further to make your dreams a reality
Life's better with choices 
We know how precious your time is. That's why you can unlock exclusive benefits and services to help you to reach your financial goals, wherever you are in the world.
Priority consideration 
Fast-track your applications for unsecured lending requests, all managed by our lending specialist team. Credit is subject to status.11 view footnote 1 
Dedicated support 
Get preferential call response times for all clients through our phone service, from 08:00-20:00, every day. 
Higher loan limits 
Priority consideration and exclusive access to higher Personal Loan limits 
Your debit card and your overdraft 
Your very own client card works like a debit card, with a unique ID. Use it to enjoy extraordinary experiences, get support from us and access special products and preferential pricing.
use your Debit Card wherever you are and withdraw cash from ATMs worldwide22 view footnote 2
access personal lifestyle benefits with your unique ID
enjoy no overdraft interest on the first £1000 of your arranged overdraft limit33 view footnote 3
Representative example: (assumed arranged overdraft of £1,200) 0% EAR (variable) on the first £1,000, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative rate of 5.8% APR (variable). 
Things you should know 
All credit applications are subject to status, our lending criteria and an assessment of the circumstances of the applicant.
Overdrafts
An overdraft lets you borrow money on your current account. An arranged overdraft is where we agree an overdraft limit with you. This can help in months when you have extra expenses.
An unarranged overdraft is when you make a payment that takes your account over your arranged limit or overdrawn when you don’t have an arranged overdraft in place.
We’ll always consider an unarranged request and make the payment if we can. Unarranged overdrafts may incur higher fees and result in declined transactions. We report account activity, including overdraft usage, to credit reference agencies. An unarranged overdraft lasting more than 30 days could negatively impact your credit rating.
Overdrafts are not suitable for long term borrowing and usually result in interest and other fees.
To find out more, go to the overdrafts page on the HSBC website where you can find our eligibility tool and overdraft cost calculator.
How does our overdraft compare? 
A good way to find out how we compare against other overdrafts or ways of borrowing is to look at the APR (annual percentage rate). An APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year. They're designed to help you compare one credit product (like a loan or an overdraft) against another more easily.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for Premier (retained Jade benefits) and Private Banking accounts is £20. Further details can be found online at our overdrafts page.
Worldwide Travel Insurance 
You'll get Worldwide Travel Insurance for you, your partner, your dependent children and grandchildren. To qualify, you’ll need to be a UK resident aged under 80.44 view footnote 4 Underwritten by Aviva Insurance Limited.
To find out more, read the HSBC Worldwide Travel Insurance Policy on our legal and insurance page.
If you need to prove you have Travel Insurance, you can ask Aviva for confirmation of coverask Aviva for confirmation of cover This link will open in a new window.
Coronavirus update 
The Foreign Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) advice in relation to coronavirus is regularly reviewed. This may affect cover provided by HSBC Travel Insurance. Please refer to the government's travel advice pagegovernment's travel advice page This link will open in a new window for the latest information.
We’ve also provided answers to some frequently asked questions about HSBC Worldwide Travel Insurance and cover for coronavirus. Please refer to our coronavirus travel guidance page for the latest information.
Pre-existing medical conditions 
We can't offer cover for certain medical conditions on this product. You may be able to get cover for these from a specialist insurer. MoneyHelperMoneyHelper This link will open in a new window has a list of these insurers – you can check its travel directorytravel directory This link will open in a new window or call 0800 1387 777.
Please note, you may not be able to find cover for undiagnosed symptoms and you may need to wait until you have a diagnosis before getting cover elsewhere.
HSBC Premier World Elite MasterCard rewards 
Get more out of travelling the world with the credit card that’s been designed with travelling in mind.
airport lounge access at over 500 airport lounges worldwide with LoungeKey55 view footnote 5
special discounts when you spend and earn points with the HSBC Premier Rewards Programme and Rewards for Miles scheme
we'll refund you the Premier World Elite MasterCard annual fee of £195, as well as the £60 fee for additional cardholders
Representative example: 59.3% APR representative variable and 18.9% p.a. (variable) for purchases, based on the annual fee of £195 and an assumed credit of £1,200.
Visit HSBC Premier World Elite Mastercard or speak to your HSBC Wealth Manager to apply. Credit is subject to status.
Already a client? 
For wealth advice, please contact your Wealth Manager directly. 
For anything else, you can call the team on 03457 70 70 70 from 08:00 to 20:00.
If you haven't already, unlock your exclusive lifestyle benefits with HSBC Concierge services.
Using your concierge service 
Explore more 
Your dedicated team
Wealth management
Lifestyle experiences
Important information 
1Priority consideration for overdraft and Personal Loan requests over £25,000, compared to all HSBC customers including HSBC Premier Bank Account holders.
2A non-sterling transaction fee for overseas transactions applies.
3Access a specialist team to manage your overdraft requests over £2\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/jade/products-and-services/
########Top of main content 
Compare current accounts 
Compare features across our accounts
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove account Remove account Advance Account 
Advance Account
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
At a glance 
About 
Advance Account 
Easy everyday banking, with access to retail offers and our Regular Saver Account, and no monthly account fee.
Monthly account fee 
Advance Account 
No.
Who can apply? 
Eligibility criteria 
Advance Account 
18 or older
happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK)
qualify for an (optional) arranged overdraft of at least £1,000
can provide ID and proof of address if needed
If you're applying from outside the UK, please contact your local branch to apply for an account. Alternatively, apply using the online form.
What you get with the account 
Features and benefits 
Advance Account 
24/7 customer support.
Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.1Footnote link 1
home&Away discounts and rewards programme.
Access to exclusive customer-only products like our Regular Saver and Global Money Account.
Up to US$10,000 emergency cash to any HSBC branch worldwide (providing you have sufficient funds).
Fee-free international transfers between your HSBC accounts.
View all your international HSBC accounts on one screen with Global View.
Welcome offers 
Terms and conditions apply 
Advance Account 
No offers currently available.
Optional arranged overdraft 
Credit is subject to status 
Advance Account 
Yes.
Important account documents 
Advance Account advance account fee information document This link will open in a new window 
advance account fee information document (184.1 kB, PDF) 
Advance Account personal banking terms conditions This link will open in a new window 
personal banking terms conditions (1.4 MB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply 
Advance Account 
Apply Apply 
View account View account 
Additional information 
Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/compare/advance-account/
########Top of main content 
Compare current accounts 
Compare features across our accounts
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove account Remove account Premier Account 
Premier Account
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
At a glance 
About 
Premier Account 
Our premium bank account, with no monthly account fee and access to exclusive rates on borrowing and savings. Financial eligibility criteria apply.
Monthly account fee 
Premier Account 
No.
Who can apply? 
Eligibility criteria 
Premier Account 
You will need to pay your annual income into the account and meet 1 of the following criteria:
have an income of at least £75,000 and one of the following HSBC UK products: a mortgage, an investment, life insurance or a protection product
have savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC UK (within 6 months of opening your account, or immediately if you’re an existing HSBC customer)
are an HSBC Premier customer (and still qualify) in another country
What you get with the account 
Features and benefits 
Premier Account 
24/7 customer support.
Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.1Footnote link 1
home&Away discounts and rewards programme, including exclusive offers for HSBC Premier customers.
Access to exclusive customer-only products like our Regular Saver and Global Money Account.
Up to US$10,000 emergency cash to any HSBC branch worldwide (providing you have sufficient funds).
Fee-free international transfers between your HSBC accounts.
View all your international HSBC accounts on one screen with Global View.
HSBC Worldwide Travel Insurance for you and your family.
Preferential terms on mortgages, loans, credit cards and savings for you and your family.
Access to the HSBC Financial Advice service (fees and eligibility criteria apply).
Global safety net for your children if they work, study or travel abroad.
Access to 2 rewards credit cards, exclusively available to HSBC Premier customers.
Welcome offers 
Terms and conditions apply 
Premier Account 
No offers currently available.
Optional arranged overdraft 
Credit is subject to status 
Premier Account 
Yes.
Important account documents 
Premier Account premier account fee information document This link will open in a new window 
premier account fee information document (128.7 kB, PDF) 
Premier Account personal banking terms conditions This link will open in a new window 
personal banking terms conditions (1.4 MB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply 
Premier Account 
Apply Apply 
View account View account 
Additional information 
Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/compare/premier-account/
########Top of main content 
Compare current accounts 
Compare features across our accounts
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove account Remove account Bank Account 
Bank Account
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
At a glance 
About 
Bank Account 
A straightforward current account, with everything you need to stay on top of your money.
Monthly account fee 
Bank Account 
No.
Who can apply? 
Eligibility criteria 
Bank Account 
18 or older
happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK)
can provide ID and proof of address if needed
If you're applying from outside the UK, please contact your local branch to apply for an account. Alternatively, apply using the online form.
What you get with the account 
Features and benefits 
Bank Account 
24/7 customer support.
Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.1Footnote link 1
home&Away discounts and rewards programme.
Access to exclusive customer-only products like our Regular Saver and Global Money Account.
Welcome offers 
Terms and conditions apply 
Bank Account 
No offers currently available.
Optional arranged overdraft 
Credit is subject to status 
Bank Account 
Yes.
Important account documents 
Bank Account bank account fee information document This link will open in a new window 
bank account fee information document (155.8 kB, PDF) 
Bank Account personal banking terms conditions This link will open in a new window 
personal banking terms conditions (1.4 MB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply 
Bank Account 
Apply Apply 
View account View account 
Additional information 
Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/compare/bank-account/
########Top of main content 
Basic Bank Account 
A basic current account for people who don't qualify for one of our other accounts 
Just the essentials for everyday banking 
Our Basic Bank Account is only for people who don't qualify for one of our other accounts – perhaps because they've had financial trouble or have a poor credit record.
Before applying for this account, we recommend you first check if you're eligible for our standard HSBC Bank Account instead.
How to apply How to apply for Basic Bank Account 
Compare our current accounts 
Here's what you get with your Basic Bank Account 
A range of ways to bank 
Do your banking by app, by phone, online or in our branches, making it easy to manage your account.11 view footnote 1
Contactless payments 
Make payments easily using Google Pay, Apple Pay, Samsung Pay or your contactless Visa debit card.22 view footnote 2 Payment limits apply.
No credit or overdraft 
You won't have access to credit (eg an arranged overdraft, credit cards or loans) or some of our savings accounts, and you won't receive a cheque book.33 view footnote 3
Manage your money with our app 
Take care of your banking in no time with our Mobile Banking app. Check your balance, set up bill payments and more. If you prefer, you can also bank online, in-branch or by phone.33 view footnote 3
Know exactly where you stand 
Use our smart money tools to manage your budget more easily. And get help to stay on top of your spending, with instant notifications when money goes in or out of your account.44 view footnote 4
See your spending broken down into categories and set targets to help control it with Spending insights and Monthly budgets.
Get help whenever you need it 
If you ever need support, we're always on hand. You can chat to us in the app, by phone, by Live Chat on our website, or by popping into one of our branches nationwide.
Who can apply? 
You may be eligible for a Basic Bank Account if you:
don't qualify for one of our other current accounts
are 16 or over and live in the UK or EU eligible countries
are happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK)
can provide ID and proof of address if needed
have read the important account documents below
Important account documents 
Basic Bank Account fee information document (PDF, 143 KB) Basic Bank Account fee information document (PDF, 143 KB) Download 
HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45 MB) HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45 MB) Download 
Glossary of Terms (PDF, 75 KB) Glossary of Terms (PDF, 75 KB) Download 
UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 106KB) UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 106KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 138 KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 138 KB) Download 
Important notes Important notes Opens in overlay 
EU eligible countries 
Belgium
Cyprus
Denmark
France
Germany
Greece
Malta
Netherlands
Poland
Portugal
Spain
Sweden
Want to apply for an account? 
Our Basic Bank Account is only designed for people who don't qualify for one of our other accounts (perhaps due to a poor credit record).
Because of this, we recommend you first check if you're eligible for our standard HSBC Bank Account instead. If you apply for that account but don't qualify, we'll automatically offer you a Basic Bank Account as an alternative if you're eligible.
View HSBC Bank Account 
Prefer to apply for our Basic Bank Account directly? 
We understand some customers have difficulty accessing financial services or may be in a vulnerable position where access to an overdraft is not suitable.
If that applies to you, please call us on 03457 404 404 to discuss your situation in more detail. Alternatively, you can apply for our Basic Bank Account online now.
Apply for a Basic Bank Account Apply for a Basic Bank Account This link will open in a new window 
Our lines are open 24 hours a day. During busy periods, calls may be transferred outside the UK. Calls may be monitored and/or recorded to help us improve our service.
You might also be interested in
Other current accounts
Take a look at our full range of current accounts, all with no monthly account fee.
Money worries
Concerned about your financial situation? Find out how we could help.
Additional information 
1. While we'll take all reasonable steps to stop your account going into an unarranged overdraft, there may be some situations where this happens. We won't charge you any interest or charges if it does.
2. Our mobile banking app is currently available on iPhones and iPads running on iOS 12 or higher and Android devices with an operating system of 5.0 or higher. 
3. Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd.
4. You'll need to opt in to receive instant notifications. You can do this in our app. This feature is currently being rolled out and may not yet be available on some older devices.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/basic-bank-account/
########Top of main content 
Compare current accounts 
Compare features across our accounts
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove account Remove account Basic Bank Account 
Basic Bank Account
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
At a glance 
About 
Basic Bank Account 
A basic current account for people who don't qualify for one of our other accounts.
Monthly account fee 
Basic Bank Account 
No.
Who can apply? 
Eligibility criteria 
Basic Bank Account 
16 or over and live in the UK or EU.
Can provide ID or proof of address if needed.
Before applying, we recommend you first check if you’re eligible for our standard HSBC Bank Account instead.
What you get with the account 
Features and benefits 
Basic Bank Account 
24/7 customer support.
Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.1Footnote link 1
No credit, overdraft or cheque book.
Limited access to other HSBC UK products.
Welcome offers 
Terms and conditions apply 
Basic Bank Account 
No offers currently available.
Optional arranged overdraft 
Credit is subject to status 
Basic Bank Account 
No.
Important account documents 
Basic Bank Account basic bank account fee information document This link will open in a new window 
basic bank account fee information document (187.6 kB, PDF) 
Basic Bank Account personal banking terms conditions This link will open in a new window 
personal banking terms conditions (1.4 MB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply 
Basic Bank Account 
Apply Apply 
View account View account 
Additional information 
Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/compare/basic-bank-account/
########Top of main content 
Bank Account Pay Monthly 
A simple account with a ‘buffer’ for unarranged emergency borrowing. There is no longer a monthly fee for using this account 
The bank account with a built-in safety net 
Stay in control of your money with our Bank Account Pay Monthly. It's got everything you need for everyday banking, plus a £50 buffer for unarranged borrowing.
To apply, you'll need to be 18+ and live in the UK or EU. This account is only available in branches.
How to apply How to apply for Bank Account Pay Monthly 
Compare our current accounts 
Here's what you get with your Bank Account Pay Monthly 
Multiple ways to bank 
Bank online, on our app, by phone or in branch. However you want to manage your money, we've got you covered.11 view footnote 1
An emergency buffer 
Your account comes with a £50 unarranged overdraft buffer designed to cover short-term emergency borrowing. Learn moreLearn more about an interest free buffer.
An optional arranged overdraft 
You can also apply for an arranged overdraft (subject to status), handy for unexpected expenses. Learn moreLearn more about an optional arranged overdraft.
Manage your account easily with our app 
Stay on top of your money with our Mobile Banking app. Wherever. Whenever. Along with the basics like viewing your balance, you can pay in cheques, temporarily freeze your card if you lose it, and more.
Know exactly where your money goes 
Our app can also help you stay on top of your budget. Easily keep track of your spending with instant notifications.22 view footnote 2
See your spending broken down into categories and set targets to help control it with Spending insights and Monthly budgets. And use our smart tools to quickly see how much you'll have left after taking care of bills and other essentials.
	
	
Get 24/7 support 
Got a question? Get in touch. You can chat to us in-app, over the phone, by Live Chat on our website, or by popping into one of our 100s of branches nationwide.
Things to know before you apply 
Ready to apply? Before you do, there are a couple of things you should check you're happy with.
About overdrafts and your £50 interest-free buffer 
When you apply for this account, you'll have the option to apply for an arranged overdraft.
An arranged overdraft allows you to borrow money (up to an agreed limit) if there’s no money left in your account. This can be useful if you're hit with an unexpected bill, for example.
If a payment would take you past your arranged limit (or if you don’t have one), we may (subject to status) allow you to borrow using the £50 interest-free buffer that comes with this account. However, you won't be able to borrow any more than this, as we won't agree to any payment requests that would take you over your arranged limit and the £50 buffer.
The £50 interest-free buffer is a form of unarranged overdraft (where you go overdrawn without agreeing it with us first). There's a chance that payments you try to make using an unarranged overdraft may be declined. However, we'll always try to allow essential payments if we can.
We report account activity, including overdraft usage, to credit reference agencies. An unarranged overdraft lasting more than 30 days could have a negative impact on your credit rating.
You can apply for an arranged overdraft when you open your account, or at any time later. You can ask to increase, remove or reduce your limit at any time in online or mobile banking, by phone or in-branch. Your new limit can't be less than what you owe.
Overdrafts are designed for short-term borrowing only, and are subject to status.
Overdraft text alerts 
If we’ve got your mobile number, we’ll send you an SMS text alert if you’ve gone overdrawn or we know you’re about to. These alerts are designed to help you manage your overdraft usage and avoid being charged interest.
You can opt out of overdraft text alerts by calling us or asking us in-branch – but remember you’ll be opting out for all your current accounts with us. If you opt out or we don’t have an up-to-date number for you, you could end up paying interest you might otherwise have avoided.
What are the overdraft charges for this account? 
Arranged borrowing: If you have an arranged overdraft, the first £25 you borrow is interest free. If you go overdrawn by more than that, you'll need to pay interest on the amount you borrow (up to your arranged limit) at the rate shown in the representative example below.
Unarranged borrowing: If you borrow more than your arranged limit (or if you don't have one), you may be able to use the £50 interest-free buffer that comes with this account (subject to status). However, we won't agree to any payment requests that would take you over your arranged limit and the £50 buffer.
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable) on the first £25, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 38.9% APR (variable). Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
To find out more, visit our Overdrafts page, where you can find out if you’re eligible for an arranged overdraft and use our overdraft cost calculator.
Who can apply? 
You can apply for an HSBC Bank Account Pay Monthly if you:
are 18 or older and live in the UK or EU
are happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK)
can provide ID and proof of address if needed
have read the important account documents below
Important account documents 
Bank Account Pay Monthly fee information document (PDF, 195 KB) Bank Account Pay Monthly fee information document (PDF, 195 KB) button:hsbc banking terms and conditions and charges (pdf, 1,4 mb)|component:midshelf2|position:2 Download 
HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.4 MB) HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/bank-account-pay-monthly/
########Top of main content 
Compare current accounts 
Compare features across our accounts
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove account Remove account Bank Account Pay Monthly 
Bank Account Pay Monthly
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
At a glance 
About 
Bank Account Pay Monthly 
A simple account with a ‘buffer’ for unarranged emergency borrowing.
Monthly account fee 
Bank Account Pay Monthly 
No.
Who can apply? 
Eligibility criteria 
Bank Account Pay Monthly 
18 or over and live in the UK or EU.
Happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK).
Can provide ID and proof of address if needed.
What you get with the account 
Features and benefits 
Bank Account Pay Monthly 
24/7 customer support.
Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.1Footnote link 1
Access to exclusive customer-only products like our Regular Saver and Global Money Account.
Welcome offers 
Terms and conditions apply 
Bank Account Pay Monthly 
No offers currently available.
Optional arranged overdraft 
Credit is subject to status 
Bank Account Pay Monthly 
Yes.
Important account documents 
Bank Account Pay Monthly pay monthly account fee information document This link will open in a new window 
pay monthly account fee information document (128.9 kB, PDF) 
Bank Account Pay Monthly personal banking terms conditions This link will open in a new window 
personal banking terms conditions (1.4 MB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply 
Bank Account Pay Monthly 
Apply Apply 
View account View account 
Additional information 
Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/compare/bank-account-pay-m/
########Top of main content 
Compare current accounts 
Compare features across our accounts
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove account Remove account Student Bank Account 
Student Bank Account
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
At a glance 
About 
Student Bank Account 
A current account designed to help you make the most of student life.
Monthly account fee 
Student Bank Account 
No.
Who can apply? 
Eligibility criteria 
Student Bank Account 
18 or over.
Live in the UK and have lived in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man for the past 3 years.
Have proof you've been accepted onto a qualifying course at a UK university or college.
What you get with the account 
Features and benefits 
Student Bank Account 
24/7 customer support.
Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.1Footnote link 1
home&Away discounts and rewards programme.
Access to exclusive customer-only products like our Regular Saver and Global Money Account.
Welcome offers 
Terms and conditions apply 
Student Bank Account 
No offers currently available.
Optional arranged overdraft 
Credit is subject to status 
Student Bank Account 
Yes.
Important account documents 
Student Bank Account student account fee information document This link will open in a new window 
student account fee information document (122.3 kB, PDF) 
Student Bank Account personal banking terms conditions This link will open in a new window 
personal banking terms conditions (1.4 MB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply 
Student Bank Account 
Apply Apply 
View account View account 
Additional information 
Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/compare/student-account/
########Top of main content 
Compare current accounts 
Compare features across our accounts
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove account Remove account International student bank account 
International student bank account
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
At a glance 
About 
International student bank account 
Our current account for international students.
Monthly account fee 
International student bank account 
No.
Who can apply? 
Eligibility criteria 
International student bank account 
18 or over
Have valid ID and proof of address.
Have proof you've been accepted onto a qualifying course at a UK university or college.
What you get with the account 
Features and benefits 
International student bank account 
24/7 customer support.
Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.1Footnote link 1
home&Away discounts and rewards programme.
Access to exclusive customer-only products like our Regular Saver and Global Money Account.
No credit, overdraft or cheque book.
Welcome offers 
Terms and conditions apply 
International student bank account 
No offers currently available.
Optional arranged overdraft 
Credit is subject to status 
International student bank account 
No.
Important account documents 
International student bank account bank account fee information document This link will open in a new window 
bank account fee information document (155.8 kB, PDF) 
International student bank account personal banking terms conditions This link will open in a new window 
personal banking terms conditions (1.4 MB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply 
International student bank account 
Apply Apply 
View account View account 
Additional information 
Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/compare/international-student-bank-account/
########Top of main content 
Graduate Bank Account 
A current account for post-university life 
Smarter banking for your life after uni 
Our Graduate Account is designed to help you make the transition from study to a career. Bank whenever and wherever you want, and use our tools to help you stay on top of your finances. With no monthly account fee.
To apply, you'll need to be 18+ and have graduated in the past 2 years
How to apply How to apply for Graduate Bank Account 
Here's what you get with your Graduate Bank Account 
An interest-free arranged overdraft 
You could get an interest-free limit of up to £3,000 in the first year, reducing to £2,000 in year 2 (subject to status). Learn moreLearn more about things to know before you apply.
Convenient ways to bank 
Online, with our app, by phone or in-branch. Bank the way you want, when you want.11 view footnote 1
Mobile payments 
Pay for your purchases with your phone using Apple Pay, Google Pay or Samsung Pay.22 view footnote 2
Representative example 
Year 1: 0% EAR33 anchors to footnote 3 on the first £3,000, 39.9% EAR (variable) above that, giving a representative rate of 0% APR (variable)44 anchors to footnote 4. Year 2: 0% EAR on the first £2,000, 39.9% EAR (variable) above that, giving a representative rate of 0% APR (variable). Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
Make banking easy with our app 
Get just about everything you want from a bank... on your phone. Check your balance, make payments, chat to us if you need help – and much more. All it takes is a few taps.
Be in the know and in control 
Keep track of your incomings and outgoings with instant notifications.33 view footnote 3 See how much you'll have left after bills and other regular payments using Balance After Bills. And if you lose track of your card, you can temporarily freeze it in seconds.
See your spending broken down into categories and set targets to help control it with Spending insights and Monthly budgets.
Get a little more from your money 
Get discounts with our home&Away offers programme 
Enjoy access to our full range of savings accounts (including some only available to HSBC current account customers) 
Things to know before you apply 
Ready to apply? Before you do, there are a couple of things you should check you're happy with.
About your optional arranged overdraft 
When you apply for this account, you'll have the option to apply for an arranged overdraft.
An arranged overdraft allows you to borrow money (up to an agreed limit) if there's no money left in your account. This can be useful if you're hit with an unexpected bill, for example.
If a payment would take you past your arranged limit (or if you don’t have one), we may let you borrow using an unarranged overdraft. There's a chance that payments you try to make using an unarranged overdraft may be declined. However, we'll always try to allow essential payments if we can. 
You can apply for an arranged overdraft when you open your account, or at any time later. You can ask to increase, remove or reduce your limit at any time in online or mobile banking, by phone or in-branch. Your new limit can't be less than what you owe.
We report account activity, including overdraft usage, to credit reference agencies. An unarranged overdraft lasting more than 30 days could have a negative impact on your credit rating.
Overdrafts are designed for short-term borrowing only, and are subject to status.
Overdraft text alerts 
If we’ve got your mobile number, we’ll send you an SMS text alert if you’ve gone overdrawn or we know you’re about to. These alerts are designed to help you manage your overdraft usage and avoid being charged interest.
You can opt out of overdraft text alerts by calling us or asking us in-branch – but remember you’ll be opting out for all your current accounts with us. If you opt out or we don’t have an up-to-date number for you, you could end up paying interest you might otherwise have avoided.
What are the overdraft charges for this account? 
In the first year after graduation, you may be eligible for an interest-free overdraft facility up to £3,000, and up to £2,000 in your second year after graduation. In your third year after graduation, we’ll move you to an Advance account or an HSBC Bank Account. At this point, you may be eligible for an arranged overdraft of up to £1,000 interest-free to help make life easier (subject to status and how your account has been used). Any arranged overdraft above these amounts will be charged interest at 39.9% EAR variable.
Representative example (based on an arranged overdraft limit of £1,200): Year 1: 0% EAR33 anchors to footnote 3 on the first £3,000, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 0% APR (variable)44 anchors to footnote 4. Year 2: 0% EAR on the first £2,000, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative rate of 0% APR (variable).
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for the Graduate Bank Account is £20. Further details can be found online at our Overdrafts page.
To find out more, visit our Overdrafts page, where you can find out if you’re eligible for an arranged overdraft and use our overdraft cost calculator.
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a Graduate Bank Account if you:
are 18 or over 
have graduated from university within the last 2 years
have lived in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man for the past 3 years
are happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK)
have read the important account documents below
Important account docume\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/graduate/
########Top of main content 
Regular Saver Account maturity options 
Make a plan for your savings 
Your Regular Saver is ending – what next? 
If you’re wondering how you could make the most of your savings when your Regular Saver ends, here are some options.
This list is not exhaustive. The best option for you will depend on your circumstances and what you want to achieve. Having clear financial goals can help you make the best financial decisions. You may wish to speak with the MoneyHelper or seek independent financial advice before making any decisions.
1) Reinvest 
If a Regular Saver has worked for you, you might want to start building another pot of money straight away by opening a new Regular Saver. With an HSBC Regular Saver you can save between £25-250 each month for 12 months, with a fixed interest rate. This means you’ll know exactly how much you’re going to earn over the course of the year.
You can apply to open a new Regular Saver once your current Regular Saver has matured. Be aware though that you won’t be able to move the full balance of your matured Regular Saver into the new one immediately, as you can only pay in a maximum of £250 per month. 
Find out more and apply
2) Consider other savings products 
Depending on your plans and goals, you may not want to lock your savings away in another Regular Saver, where you won’t be able to access the money for 12 months. If this is the case, you might want to consider moving your money into one of our other savings accounts.
A Flexible Saver or an Online Bonus Saver could be a good match if you want the option to start spending your money straight away. With these accounts, you can withdraw your money when you need it.
If you want to keep building your savings, our Fixed Rate Saver may offer a higher interest rate provided you are happy to lock away the funds for a 1 or 2-year period.
If you’re looking to make the most of your tax allowances, a Cash ISA could be up your street. You can save up to a certain amount each tax year without having to pay tax on the interest you earn. For full details on ISA limits, see our Cash ISA page.
Discover our full range of savings accounts
3) Repay debts 
If you have debts that are incurring high levels of interest, it may make sense to use some of your savings to pay them off. Typically, it’s best to repay the debt with the highest interest rate first, as that’s costing you the most money.
Keep in mind that each debt may have certain conditions you need to meet. Check you won’t be charged for early repayments, or overpayments.
See how to repay debts.
4) Explore investing 
It’s good to have something set aside for emergencies, but if there’s a large amount sitting in your savings account, you might be able to make more of your money.
If you’ve never invested before, our beginner’s guide is a good place to start. It introduces you to the key things you need to know about investing, along with the different ways you can get started.
Bear in mind, the value of investments and any income they generate can go down as well as up, meaning you may not get back what you invest. You can access your money if you need to, however you should aim to invest for at least 5 years.
Our investment services involve a one-off advice fee, along with applicable investment charges. The advice fee is payable from selected HSBC current or savings accounts so you’d need to hold one of these to access the services.
Keen to explore your options? See our ways to invest.
What next? 
If you decide not to take any action, then when your account ends, we'll transfer your savings into your Flexible Saver or Premier Savings account. If you have more than one of these accounts, we'll pay your savings into the account which pays the best interest. And if you don't have any of these accounts, we'll convert your Regular Saver to a Flexible Saver.
Explore more
How to grow your money 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/regular-saver/maturity-options/
########Top of main content 
Compare current accounts 
Compare features across our accounts
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove account Remove account Graduate Bank Account 
Graduate Bank Account
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
At a glance 
About 
Graduate Bank Account 
Our account for life after uni, ideal whether you're starting work or taking some time out.
Monthly account fee 
Graduate Bank Account 
No.
Who can apply? 
Eligibility criteria 
Graduate Bank Account 
18 or over.
Have graduated from university within the past 2 years.
Happy for us to do a credit check against your name (if you live in the UK).
What you get with the account 
Features and benefits 
Graduate Bank Account 
24/7 customer support.
Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.1Footnote link 1
home&Away discounts and rewards programme.
Access to exclusive customer-only products like our Regular Saver and Global Money Account.
Welcome offers 
Terms and conditions apply 
Graduate Bank Account 
No offers currently available.
Optional arranged overdraft 
Credit is subject to status 
Graduate Bank Account 
Yes.
Important account documents 
Graduate Bank Account graduate account fee information document This link will open in a new window 
graduate account fee information document (169.4 kB, PDF) 
Graduate Bank Account personal banking terms conditions This link will open in a new window 
personal banking terms conditions (1.4 MB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply 
Graduate Bank Account 
Apply Apply 
View account View account 
Additional information 
Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/compare/graduate-account/
########Top of main content 
Flexible Saver Account 
Save in a way that works best for you 
HSBC Flexible Saver 
Whether you’re saving for a wedding, a new car, a once-in-a-lifetime holiday or maybe all 3, you can open as many Flexible Saver accounts as you have reasons to save.
Open an account with £1. How much you save is up to you – you can put in a lump sum or save a little at a time, starting from just £1 
Save a bit every month. You can choose to save by standing order, transferring a set amount into the account each month or by making a lump sum payment. There’s no maximum balance 
Access your money instantly. This is an instant access account, so you can take out and transfer money whenever you need to, no notice required 
Manage your money anytime. Once opened, you can manage your account via telephone and online banking, the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app or in any of our branches 
Open a Flexible Saver account today
Start saving for something special with just a £1 deposit.
How to apply How to apply for a HSBC Flexible Saver 
Please read the important product information and check eligibility before you apply.
Summary box 
What is the account name? 
Flexible Saver
What is the interest rate? 
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Balance Interest rate 
£1+
	2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Balance 
£1+
	
Interest rate 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	
Interest is calculated daily and credited to the account monthly.
Can HSBC change the interest rate? 
Yes, we can change the interest rate on this account, in line with the account's Terms and Conditions.
What would the estimated balance be after 12 months based on a £1,000 deposit? 
The estimated balance after 12 months based on a £1,000 deposit would be as follows: 
Initial deposit Interest rate Balance at the end of 12 months 
£1,000	2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	£1,020.00	
The estimated balance after 12 months based on a £1,000 deposit would be as follows: 
Initial deposit £1,000	
Interest rate 2.00% AER / 1.98% gross	
Balance at the end of 12 months £1,020.00	
For the purpose of this calculation it is assumed:
initial deposit of £1,000
no further deposits
no withdrawals
no change to the interest rate during the 12 months
Projection provided for illustrative purposes only and does not take into account individual circumstances.
How do I open & manage my account? 
Eligibility:
aged 16 years or over

How to open the account:
this account can be opened in sole or joint names.
open an account via online banking or in branch

Minimum/Maximum Balance:
a minimum of £1 must be deposited to open the account.
there is no maximum balance

How to manage the account:
once opened, the account can be managed via online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app, where you can chat to us 24/7
you can also manage the account via Telephone Banking or in branch
Can I withdraw money? 
Yes, you have instant access to your account. You can make as many fee free withdrawals as you like.
Additional Information 
A 14 day cancellation period applies to this account.
We do not deduct tax from any interest paid to you.
Tax benefits depend on individual circumstances and could change in the future.
Definitions:
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. This shows you what the gross rate would be if interest were paid and compounded each year.
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted.
Rates correct as at 10 August 2023
How to apply 
Are you eligible? 
To open an HSBC Flexible Saver account, you must be:
aged 16 or over
Apply online 
You can apply online in minutes if you’re an existing HSBC customer registered for online banking.
You’ll need to contact us to apply if you:
want to open a joint account
are a Basic Bank Account customer
are a credit card only customer
have multiple tax residencies or are a non-UK tax resident
Log on to apply Log on to apply for a flexible saver account This link will open in a new window 
Not registered for online banking yet? 
It only takes a few minutes. Then, once you receive your security details, you can apply online right away.
Register for online banking 
Apply in branch 
Prefer to apply in a branch? 
It’s usually easiest to apply online, but if you need support, visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application.
Please bring your mobile phone with you (or a similar device, like a tablet) if you have one.
Find your nearest branch 
Additional information 
Before applying, please take the time to read the following documents. You may also want to save them for future reference.
Privacy Notice (PDF, 133KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 133KB) Download 
UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 578KB) UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 578KB) Download 
HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) Download 
Important notes Important notes Important notes Opens in overlay 
MoneyHelper MoneyHelper This link will open in a new window 
Frequently Asked Questions
How do I apply for a Flexible Saver? 
If you’re registered for online banking, you can apply online for a Flexible Saver in minutes. And if you haven't registered yet, it only takes a few minutes. Once you get your security details, you can apply online right away.
If you want to open a joint account, or have a Basic Bank Account, contact us to open a Flexible Saver. This also applies if you’re a tax resident outside the UK or have multiple tax residencies. 
If you aren't an existing customer, or are a credit card only customer you'll need to visit either a full service or digital service branch to open a Flexible Saver account.
How much can I save? 
You can save any amount from £1 upwards. There is no maximum balance.
How can I access my savings? 
You can access your money online, by phone or in any of our branches.
You might also be interested in
Regular Savings Account
Save between £25 and £250 every mon\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/flexible-saver/
########Top of main content 
Compare current accounts 
Compare features across our accounts
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove account Remove account Children's bank account 
Children's bank account
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
Add account Add account Select an account to compare 
Select an account to compare
At a glance 
About 
Children's bank account 
Our current account for 11 to 17 year olds, with a debit card and a linked savings account.
Monthly account fee 
Children's bank account 
No.
Who can apply? 
Eligibility criteria 
Children's bank account 
If your parent or guardian is an HSBC customer (not including business accounts):
11 to 17 years old.
Can provide proof of your identity (eg your passport).
If your parent or guardian isn't a customer:
11 to 17 years old.
Can provide proof of identity for you and proof of identity and address for your parent/guardian (eg passports and a utility bill).
What you get with the account 
Features and benefits 
Children's bank account 
24/7 customer support.
Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.1Footnote link 1
An accompanying MySavings savings account.
Welcome offers 
Terms and conditions apply 
Children's bank account 
No offers currently available.
Optional arranged overdraft 
Credit is subject to status 
Children's bank account 
No.
Important account documents 
Children's bank account myaccount account fee information document This link will open in a new window 
myaccount account fee information document (126 kB, PDF) 
Children's bank account personal banking terms conditions This link will open in a new window 
personal banking terms conditions (1.4 MB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply 
Children's bank account 
Apply Apply 
View account View account 
Additional information 
Apple Pay is a trademark of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google Pay is a trademark of Google LLC. Samsung Pay is a registered trademark of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/compare/childrens-bank-account/
########Top of main content 
Premier Savings 
The savings account that puts you first 
HSBC Premier Savings 
Enjoy the flexibility of instant access with an HSBC Premier Savings account. Whether you’re saving to get on the property ladder, or you want to support your family over the longer term. 
Available to Premier customers only 
Open an account with £1. How much you save is up to you – with no maximum limit 
Access your money instantly. No notice is needed, and you can transfer funds instantly 
Save the way you want. You can put away a lump sum, make a regular standing order or just make payments when it suits you 
See your money grow. Premier Savings pays you interest every month 
Manage your money anytime. Once opened, you can manage your account via online, mobile and phone banking or by visiting us in branch 
Apply for a Premier Savings Account 
How to apply How to apply for a HSBC Premier Savings account 
Please read the important product information and check eligibility before you apply.
Summary box 
What is the account name? 
HSBC Premier Savings
What is the interest rate? 
See current interest rates below: 
Balance Interest Rate 
All balances	2.25% AER / 2.23% gross	
See current interest rates below: 
Balance All balances	
Interest Rate 2.25% AER / 2.23% gross	
Interest is calculated daily and is credited to the account monthly.
Rate also applies to all cash within the Premier Investment Management Service (PIMS) and Trust Services including Trust Discretionary Investment Services (TDIS).
Can HSBC change the interest rate? 
Yes, we can change the interest rate on this account in line with the account’s Terms and Conditions.
What would the estimated balance be after 12 months based on a £1,000 deposit? 
The estimated balance after 12 months based on a £1,000 deposit would be as follows: 
Initial deposit
Interest rate
Balance at the end of 12 months 
£1,000	2.25% AER / 2.23% gross	£1,022.50	
The estimated balance after 12 months based on a £1,000 deposit would be as follows: 
Initial deposit
£1,000	
Interest rate
2.25% AER / 2.23% gross	
Balance at the end of 12 months £1,022.50	
For the purpose of this calculation, it is assumed:-
initial deposit of £1,000
no further deposits
no withdrawals
no change to the interest rate during the 12 months
Projection provided for illustrative purposes only and does not take into account individual circumstances.
How do I open & manage my account? 
Eligibility:
aged 18 years or over
an HSBC Premier customer
How to open the account:
this account can be opened in sole or joint names
open an account via online banking or in branch
Minimum/Maximum Balance:
a minimum of £1 must be deposited to open an account
there is no maximum balance
How to manage the account:
once opened, the account can be managed via online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app, where you can chat to us 24/7
you can also manage the account via Telephone Banking or in branch
Can I withdraw money? 
Yes, you have instant access to your account. You can make as many fee free withdrawals as you like.
Additional Information 
A 14 day cancellation period applies to this account.
We do not deduct tax from any interest paid to you.
Tax benefits depend on individual circumstances and could change in the future.

Definitions
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. This shows you what the gross rate would be if interest were paid and compounded each year.
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted.

Rates correct as at 10 August 2023
How to apply for HSBC Premier Savings 
Are you eligible? 
To open an HSBC Premier Savings account, you just need to be:
aged 18 or over
an HSBC Premier customer*
*if you don’t have an HSBC Premier Account, please see our Premier Bank Account for details on how to open one.
Existing HSBC Premier customers 
Apply online 
You can apply online in minutes if you're an existing HSBC Premier customer registered for online banking.
You’ll need to contact us to apply if you:
want to open a joint account
have multiple tax residencies or are a non-UK tax resident
Log on to apply Log on to apply for an HSBC Premier Savings account This link will open in a new window 
Not registered for online banking yet? 
If you already have a qualifying HSBC Premier account, you can register in minutes. Once you get your security details, you can apply for an HSBC Premier Savings account online.
Register for online banking 
Apply by phone or in branch 
Prefer to apply in a branch? 
It’s usually easiest to apply online, but if you need support, visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application.
Please bring your mobile phone with you (or a similar device, like a tablet) if you have one.
Find your nearest branch 
Apply by phone 
If you already have a qualifying HSBC Premier account, you can find out more and apply for an HSBC Premier Savings account over the phone:
0800 032 4729
Lines are open 8am to 8pm every day (excluding Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day).
New to HSBC Premier? 
To enjoy the benefits of this account, you’ll need to upgrade your existing HSBC current account or open an HSBC Premier current account.
HSBC Premier is available to you, if you pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account and have either:
1. savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or
2. an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK: a mortgage, investment, life insurance or protection product.
Or if you’ve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another country or region.
Find out more 
I already bank with HSBC 
Call us: 03457 707070
From outside the UK: +44 1226 260 260
Lines are open 08:00 - 20:00 every day.
I'm not an HSBC customer 
Call us: 0800 328 1296
From outside the UK: +44 1226 260 260
Lines are open 08:00 - 20:00 every day 
(except for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day.
Additional information 
Before applying, please take the time\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/premier/
########Top of main content 
Fixed Rate Saver maturity options 
Make a plan for your savings 
Your Fixed Rate Saver is ending – what next? 
If you’re wondering how you could make the most of your savings when your Fixed Rate Saver ends, here are some options.
This list is not exhaustive. The best option for you will depend on your circumstances and what you want to achieve. Having clear financial goals can help you make the best financial decisions. You may wish to speak with the MoneyHelper or seek independent financial advice before making any decisions.
1) Reinvest 
If you’d like to keep things pretty much as they are, you can put your money into a new Fixed Rate Saver. You can apply to reinvest your Fixed Rate Saver up to 90 days before and 90 days after the maturity date, and keep the same account number.
It’s important to remember, however, that rates are subject to change. If you instruct us to reinvest before maturity, you’ll receive the rate applicable on the day of maturity, not the date you submitted your instruction.
If we receive your instructions after your account has matured, you’ll get the rate available on the day we receive your instruction.
We’ll write to you to confirm the interest rate and maturity date within 2 working days of the reinvestment.
To find out more, see our reinvesting page.
2) Consider other savings products 
Depending on your plans and goals, you may not want to lock your savings away in a Fixed Rate Saver, where you won’t be able to access the money for a year or more. If this is the case, you might want to consider moving your money into one of our other savings accounts.
A Flexible Saver or an Online Bonus Saver could be a good match if you want the option to start spending your money straight away. With these accounts, you can withdraw your money when you need it.
If you plan to keep building your savings, our Regular Saver lets you pay in between £25-250 per month over the course of a year, at an interest rate which will stay fixed for that year.
If you’re looking to make the most of your tax allowances, a Cash ISA could be up your street. You can save up to a certain amount each tax year without having to pay tax on the interest you earn. For full details on ISA limits, see our Cash ISA page.
Discover our full range of savings accounts
3) Repay debts 
If you have debts that are incurring high levels of interest, it may make sense to use some of your savings to pay them off. Typically, it’s best to repay the debt with the highest interest rate first, as that’s costing you the most money.
Keep in mind that each debt may have certain conditions you need to meet. Check you won’t be charged for early repayments or overpayments.
See how to repay debts.
4) Explore investing 
It’s good to have something set aside for emergencies, but if there’s a large amount sitting in your savings account, you might be able to make more of your money.
If you’ve never invested before, our beginner’s guide is a good place to start. It introduces you to the key things you need to know about investing, along with the different ways you can get started.
Bear in mind, the value of investments and any income they generate can go down as well as up, meaning you may not get back what you invest. You can access your money if you need to, however you should aim to invest for at least 5 years.
Our investment services involve a one-off advice fee, along with applicable investment charges. The advice fee is payable from selected HSBC current or savings accounts so you’d need to hold one of these to access the services.
Keen to explore your options? See our ways to invest.
What next? 
If you decide not to take any action, when your account ends, your funds and interest will be paid into the account they came from. If that account is no longer available, we’ll pay them into a new Flexible Saver account in your name.
Explore more
How to grow your money 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/fixed-rate/maturity-options/
########Top of main content 
Change your contact details 
Keep your phone number and email address up to date, so we can stay in touch 
Take me straight to 
Mobile Banking app 
Online banking 
Change in branch 
Phone banking 
Marketing preferences 
Mobile Banking app 
Log on to your mobile app and follow these steps.
1. Select your profile
This is an icon in the top right-hand corner of the screen.
2. Find your details
Select 'Update your personal details' and then choose 'Contact details'.
3. Change your contact details
Select the phone number or email address and follow the instructions.
Online banking 
Log onLog on This link will open in a new window to online banking using your Secure Key and follow these steps.
1. Go to your account
From the 'Account services' menu, select 'Personal and address details'.
2. Find your details
Select 'Contact details' to find the phone number or email address.
3. Change your contact details
Select 'Edit' to change your details and follow the instructions.
In branch 
Come in to your nearest branch and we'll be happy to help. Please remember to bring ID so we can confirm your details.
Find your nearest branch 
Phone banking 
If you're not registered for mobile or online banking, you can call us on the number that applies to you.
Personal customers 
03457 404 404 
Premier customers 
03457 707 070 
Business customers 
0800 032 1770 
Outside the UK 
+44 144 242 2929 
Marketing preferences 
You can update how you'd like to hear about products and services in online banking or the Mobile Banking app.
Mobile Banking app
1. Select the profile icon in the top right-hand corner of the screen.
2. Go to 'Communication preferences', then select 'Marketing preferences' to update your options.
Online banking
1. Go to your account.
2. From the 'Account services' menu, select 'Communication preferences' to update your options.
Explore more
How to change your address
Update your home or correspondence address - online, over the phone or in branch.
How to change your name or title
You can update your name or title at your nearest branch. Find out what you'll need to bring with you.
How to update your gender
Find out how to change the gender we have on record, or change to a gender-neutral title.
Back to top\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/update-your-details/change-contact-details/
########Top of main content 
Help to Buy: ISA 
The Help to Buy: ISA scheme is now closed to new savers. If you already have one with us, here's what you need to know 
Helping you save for a place of your own 
Help to Buy: ISAs are now closed to new applicants, but you can continue adding money to one you’ve already opened until 30 November 2029. You can also transfer an existing Help to Buy: ISA to HSBC if you’re with another provider and hold an HSBC current account, Flexible Saver or Premier Savings.
Manage your ISA 
Missed out? Explore other ways to save
How your Help to Buy: ISA works 
Help to Buy: ISAs were brought in by the government to help first-time buyers save for a new home more quickly. Here’s a reminder of how they work.
1. Save your money
You can save up to £200 every calendar month. Save £1,600 or more and you’ll get a government bonus to use towards a property.
2. Find a property
When you've found a place to buy, let us know by phone or in branch. We’ll send you a closing statement to give to your solicitor or conveyancer.
3. Claim your bonus
Your solicitor or conveyancer will claim your 25% government bonus on your behalf. It will then be added to your funds when you complete on the property.
Your questions answered 
How long can I keep my Help to Buy: ISA? 
You can keep on paying into your Help to Buy: ISA until 30 November 2029. The deadline for claiming your bonus from the government is on or before 1 December 2030.
What's the interest rate? 
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Balance Tax-free per year AER 
Up to £12,000	3.45%	3.50%	
Over £12,000	1.98%	2.00%	
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Balance Up to £12,000	
Tax-free per year 3.45%	
AER 3.50%	
	
Balance Over £12,000	
Tax-free per year 1.98%	
AER 2.00%	
Interest is calculated each day and credited to your account every month. If you have more than £12,000 in your account, only the part that's over £12,000 will earn the lower rate of interest. The rest will earn the higher rate.
Please note that the interest rate is variable, which means it may change in future (see our ISA Terms and Conditions (PDF, 415KB) for more information).
How much will my bonus be from the government? 
As long as you've saved at least £1,600, the government will give you a tax-free bonus of 25% of whatever's in your account when you close it. The minimum you'd get would be £400, up to a maximum bonus of £3,000 if your closing balance is £12,000 or more.
How do I claim my government bonus? 
To qualify for the government bonus, the property you buy must be in the UK, with a purchase price of up to £250,000 outside London or £450,000 inside London.
You’ll also need to: 
be a first-time buyer
be buying the property using a mortgage
have saved at least £1,600
When you’re ready to buy the property, contact us to close your account. We’ll give you a closing statement, which you’ll need to pass to your solicitor or conveyancer so they can claim the government bonus for you.
Please note that you can't use the government bonus to cover any costs before completion or to use as the deposit when you exchange contracts.
Can I transfer in from another Help to Buy: ISA? 
Yes. If you have a Help to Buy: ISA with another provider, you can transfer it to us if you hold an HSBC current account, Flexible Saver or Premier Savings. First, you'll need to print off and complete an ISA transfer form (PDF, 445KB). Then you can either:
book an appointmentbook an appointment This link will open in a new window at one of our branches and take your form with you
post it to us at: HSBC UK Bank plc, Forum 1, The Forum, 1st Floor, Fareham, Hampshire PO15 7PA
If you don't have a printer at home you'll be able to get hold of a form in one of our branches.
Can I withdraw money from my Help to Buy: ISA? 
Yes, you can take out money whenever you want. Just remember that you can only pay in up to £200 a month, so making withdrawals means it will take longer to build up your savings. Also, the bonus you receive from the government is based on the final balance in your account, so anything you take out beforehand won’t count.
You should also bear in mind that you'll lose the associated tax benefits on any money you withdraw.
Can I reopen my account if my property purchase falls through? 
Yes, as long as you ask us to reopen the account within 12 months of closing it. You’ll need to provide a ‘purchase-failure notice’ from your solicitor or conveyancer.
Managing your Help to Buy: ISA 
Manage your ISA online 
Check your balance and make transactions, 24/7, by logging on to online banking.
Log on to online banking 
Other ways to manage your ISA 
You can also manage your Help to Buy: ISA through our mobile banking app (you'll need a compatible device). Register for mobile banking.
Alternatively, you can manage your ISA by phone or by popping into a branch.
Ready to buy your first property? 
Find out everything you need on the journey to owning your own home.
First time buyer mortgages 
Summary box for our Help to Buy: ISA 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) requires all banks and building societies to include a 'summary box' like this one for each of their savings products. It gives you all the key facts and figures in one handy spot.
What is the account name? 
Help to Buy: ISA
What is the interest rate? 
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Balance Tax-free per year AER 
Up to £12,000	3.45%	3.50%	
Over £12,000	1.98%	2.00%	
The current interest rates are shown below: 
Balance Up to £12,000	
Tax-free per year 3.45%	
AER 3.50%	
	
Balance Over £12,000	
Tax-free per year 1.98%	
AER 2.00%	
Interest is calculated each day and credited to your account every month. Balances of up to £12,000 will earn the higher rate of interest. Only the part of the balance that’s over £12,000 will earn the lower rate of interest.
Can HSBC change the interest rate? 
Yes. The account pays a variable rate of interest, which means it can change over time. The HSBC Cash ISA Terms and Con\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/products/help-to-buy-isa/
########Top of main content 
Premier Credit Card 
Get travel benefits and reward points - plus 18 months interest free on balance transfers (2.99% fee, min £5). Just for HSBC Premier customers. 
A credit card that gives you access to a world of travel benefits and privileges – all for no annual fee. Representative 23.9% APR (variable).
Balance transfers need to be done in the first 60 days to get 18 months interest free.
Credit is subject to status, affordability and terms and conditions.
Please read the important documents before applying.
Representative example
Purchase rate23.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative23.9% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Start application 
Key benefits of a Premier Credit Card 
Earn rewards on purchases 
For every £1 of eligible spend11 view footnote 1, you’ll earn 1 reward point if it’s in sterling22 view footnote 2, or 2 reward points if it’s in another currency33 view footnote 3 (fees apply to non-sterling transactions).
0% interest on purchases 
0% interest on purchases for 9 months44 view footnote 4 after account opening.
0% interest on balance transfers 
0% interest for 18 months44 view footnote 4 on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 2.99% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5.
Your Premier Credit Card also comes with 
Use your credit card abroad 
You can use your HSBC credit card in all countries and regions supported by the Visa and Mastercard networks. Fees apply, and non-HSBC cash machines may also charge a fee. 
Airport lounge access 
Get access to more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide with Priority PassPriority Pass This link will open in a new window. Just show your Premier Credit Card at the door. Lounges charge £24 per person per visit, subject to availability. 
No annual fee 
There's no annual fee for the Premier Credit Card, but a 2.99% balance transfer fee applies to each balance transferred (minimum £5). 
Extended warranty cover 
Get 2 years extended warranty55 view footnote 5 provided by Domestic & General Insurance PLC, on selected household items. 
Enjoy 24/7 worldwide assistance 
Help is at hand if your card is lost or stolen. Call our dedicated support team about getting an emergency cash advance. 
Mastercard Priceless 
Access unforgettable experiences and everyday value in the cities where you live and travel with Mastercard Priceless.Mastercard Priceless. This link will open in a new window 
No-fuss card management 
Use online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app to check your balance, make payments, freeze your card, and stay in control. 
Go digital 
All HSBC credit cards are contactless and can be used with a digital wallet. For immediate access to spending, you can add your card to Apple Pay or Google Pay directly from the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app before your new card arrives. 
Things to know 
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a Premier Credit Card if you:
are over 18
are a UK resident
hold an HSBC Premier Account
Important documents 
Summary box (PDF, 148KB) Summary box (PDF, 148KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Download 
Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Download 
Premier Credit Card Terms and Conditions (PDF, 582KB) Premier Credit Card Terms and Conditions (PDF, 582KB) Download 
Extended Warranty (PDF, 65KB) Extended Warranty (PDF, 65KB) Download 
Reward Programme Rules (PDF, 261KB) Reward Programme Rules (PDF, 261KB) Download 
Ready to apply for a Premier Credit Card? 
Existing customers 
On your mobile device? If you've downloaded our app and have an HSBC Premier account, you can apply now by selecting 'Apply in app'.
Apply in app Apply in app for a credit card 
If you're on a desktop, scan the QR code with your mobile device.
More ways to apply 
Apply in browser 
If you have an HSBC Premier account and you're registered for online banking, you can start your application right away. You'll be able to see your pre-filled application form, submit it, and get an instant decision.
Log on and apply Log on and apply This link will open in a new window 
Register for online banking 
Apply in branch 
It’s usually easiest to apply through the app or online banking, but if you need support you can visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application.
Please bring your mobile phone with you (or a similar device, like a tablet) if you have one.
Find your nearest branch 
New to the UK? 
We may be able to access your international credit history in selected countries to help you apply for an HSBC UK credit card.
Find out about credit cards for international customers 
Frequently asked questions 
What is a Premier credit card? 
It's a credit card that's exclusively for HSBC Premier Account holders and gives you access to a world of travel benefits and privileges.
Does HSBC Premier include airport lounge access? 
A benefit to an HSBC Premier Credit Card is access to Priority Pass membership. This means you can relax in more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide for just £24 per person per visit, subject to availability.
How do I use HSBC Priority Pass? 
You'll need to register your card for HSBC Priority Pass access. This can be done at the Priority Pass website. Once you’ve signed up, simply show your card when you visit.
You might also be interested in 
Not the right card for you?
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one that matches your needs.
Reward points
Find out how your rewards credit card can pay you back.
Credit card rewards explained
Get to know what a reward credit card can offer you, and how much it could cost you to use one.
How to avoid credit card charges
Get to know the different types of credit card charges and how you can reduce the amount you pay.
Standards of Lending Practice 
HSBC adheres to the standards of lending practice guidelines.
Additional information 
1. Eligible spend excludes cash advances, fees, balance transfers, cheques, refunds,\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/premier/
########Top of main content 
Manage your overdraft 
Prepare for life's unexpected costs with a range of overdraft information for existing customers. 
Need a hand with the rising cost of living? We're offering temporary support measures on overdraft borrowing across eligible accounts. Just request support by 27 April 2024.
Check out our Overdraft Support page to find out more and fill out the online request form.
close 
Everything you need to know to manage your HSBC overdraft 
If you already have an HSBC overdraft, and are struggling to pay it off, there's a range of steps you can take to manage your finances. From calculating what your overdraft will cost, to financial fitness tips, find out how to manage your money with us.
Log on to manage your overdraft 
Tools to help manage your finances 
Overdraft calculator 
See how much it could cost you to use your account's personal overdraft facility. 
Financial fitness 
Generate your financial fitness score by answering a few quick questions, with no impact on your credit score. 
Balance After Bills 
Help manage your money until payday with our handy bills calendar. 
Budget planner 
Take control of your spending with help working out where your money goes, and see if you can start saving more. 
Other things to help 
What is overdraft repeat use? 
Frequent use, value and reliance on an overdraft may cause avoidable charges. 
Mobile money management 
Manage your money more easily with our mobile app. 
How to get out of your overdraft 
If you're relying on your overdraft regularly and don’t have any savings available, here are some actions you may want to consider. 
Money worries 
We're here to help if you're worried about money. 
Manage your existing overdraft 
You can ask to increase, decrease or remove your arranged overdraft in our app or by logging on to online banking.
Using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app all you have to do is:
Log on to the app.
Choose the relevant account that you'd like to manage your overdraft for.
Select 'View more' in the menu and select ‘Manage arranged overdraft'.
Prefer to manage your overdraft by phone or in branch? 
We’re currently advising customers to manage their overdraft online at the moment, if you can.
If that isn’t possible, please call us on 03456 040 626 or make an appointment to see us in branch.
Our lines are open 08:00 to 20:00 every day except Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day.
Find your nearest branch
Download the app 
Scan the QR code or select 'Get the app' and you'll go straight to the app in your app store.
Get the app 
Frequently asked questions 
What should I do if I'm struggling to pay off my overdraft? 
If you’re finding it hard to manage your overdraft or financial situation in general, please get in touch. We'll talk to you about your situation and help you find a solution.
Please use our Live Chat option if it’s available, or you can find our contact details on this page.
You can also get free, impartial advice from a number of independent organisations, including:
Citizens AdviceCitizens Advice This link will open in a new window
National DebtlineNational Debtline This link will open in a new window (if you’re self-employed)
StepChange Debt CharityStepChange Debt Charity This link will open in a new window
What's the best way to reduce repeated use of my overdraft? 
There are different ways to reduce repeated overdraft use. Some examples are:
Review your monthly commitments - this can help you to reduce or remove unnecessary expenditure.
Reduce the number of days each month you use your overdraft - this can make a difference, even if only a few days.
Create a budget that looks at your earning and spending to help you identify where your money is going and where you may want to make changes.
Reducing your overdraft by transferring funds in from any other accounts you may have.
Have a look at other borrowing options that could meet your long-term borrowing needs - this may help to reduce your monthly interest charges.
Are there any ways to help me manage my finances? 
There are a number of ways you can reduce spending or increase your income. Some examples are:
Reviewing your tax codes. Visit gov.uk/guidance/hmrc-tools-and-calculatorsgov.uk/guidance/hmrc-tools-and-calculators This link will open in a new window to check you're paying the right tax.
Checking you’re receiving all the benefits that you’re entitled to. Visit gov.uk/benefits-calculatorsgov.uk/benefits-calculators This link will open in a new window.
Checking for any tax credits you might qualify for. Visit gov.uk/tax-credits-calculatorgov.uk/tax-credits-calculator This link will open in a new window.
Reviewing all your borrowing. Ask yourself if you have the right products to meet your needs.
You can also keep a track of your spending through:
our mobile banking app
online banking
overdraft text alerts
We’ll send you a text message when you go into your arranged or unarranged overdraft (including any interest-free overdraft amount on your account). We’ll also text you if you don’t have enough money to make a payment. We’ll do this as long as we have a correct mobile number for you and you haven’t chosen to opt out of the service.
What's the difference between an arranged and an unarranged overdraft? 
An arranged overdraft is where we agree an overdraft limit with you in advance. You’ll then be able to borrow up to that limit without any issues. You can apply for this kind of overdraft when opening your account, or at any time later.
An unarranged overdraft is when your account goes overdrawn and you don’t have an arranged overdraft, or you go over your arranged limit. We charge interest on both types of overdraft (once you’ve borrowed more than any interest-free buffer).
Using an unarranged overdraft can have a negative impact on your credit rating. We may also decline payments that would involve using an unarranged overdraft. However, in most cases we will try to make your essential payments even if you don’t have enough\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/existing-customers/overdrafts/
########Top of main content 
Checklist for moving outside the UK 
If you’re about to move outside the UK, it can put your mind at ease if you create a checklist of things to do. 
Here are some steps to get you started and make sure you don't forget something important when moving outside the UK. 
Check your passport is valid 
If your passport is due to expire within the next year, you may want to renew it before you move to save you having to manage it from outside the UK.
Apply for work permits and visas 
Each country or region has its own requirements and timings, so make sure you have the relevant applications submitted well before you are due to move, or start work.
Set a budget for settling in costs 
Aside from your flights and initial accommodation, there may be other costs you want to save for. These can be for anything from new clothes to new furnishings, as well as a bond or deposit on a new place to live.
If you'll be looking for work when you reach your new country or region, make sure you allow for a decent amount of time to find employment. You can find out more about setting up your finances outside the UK and how to create a budget.
Start saving 
Once you have your budget, set yourself a savings goal so you’ll be prepared when the time comes to move. Make sure your goal is achievable so you can stay on track.
If you feel you may not be able to save enough to meet your budget, think about any areas where you may be able to cut back. It could be your current spending, or your planned costs once you move.
Notify HMRC you’re moving outside the UK 
You’ll need to let HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) know let HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) know This link will open in a new window you’re moving outside the UK. It can be a good idea to do this early, just in case there are any tax payments you’ll need to make that you haven’t accounted for.
Complete a health check 
Vaccinations and health checks are sometimes needed before you enter your new country or region.
Make sure you'll be able to get any medication you need when you move. Don't forget to pack extra in your carry-on bag, in case your checked baggage is delayed on arrival. If you’re not sure about anything, chat to your doctor about your options.
Organise storage and shipping 
If you’re leaving some things behind, look at your options for storage.
If you’re taking some of your furniture with you, you may need to think about shipping. Get several quotes to make sure you get the best price and read the fine print of any agreement before you sign. Many companies say they're insured, but that doesn't necessarily mean your possessions are.
Set up your banking 
How are you going to get money in your new home country or region? You may be able to apply for a bank account online before you arrive, or you could choose to open an international bank accountinternational bank account International Bank before you leave.
Allow yourself a bit of time. For example, During peak international moving season it can take a little longer than normal to open an account.
Gather key documents 
There are some key things you’ll want to arrange before arriving. This includes things like accommodation, education if you have school-aged children, and making sure you're allowed to drive.
You may need some or all of these before you move:
passport 
driving licence 
marriage certificate 
birth certificate 
child custody papers 
divorce papers 
adoption papers 
rental references 
school reports 
Pay all your bills 
Contact your gas, electricity, water, telephone, TV and broadband suppliers to let them know and pay any outstanding bills.
Redirect your post 
Make sure your post doesn't get lost by setting up a redirect to your new home, or perhaps someone in your family. 
Consider travel insurance 
A fully comprehensive one-way travel insurance policy can cover you for your belongings, illness, travel delays, missed departure and airline failure.
Check your phone is unlocked 
If your phone is unlocked you'll be able to use any SIM card. This makes it easier if you switch to a contract in your new country or region.
Moving outside the UK with pets 
Make sure you allow plenty of time to plan if you're taking your pets with you. With some countries and regions, it can take up to 6 months to move pets internationally. 
Rules about bringing in pets vary greatly around the world, so it's important to research the laws for wherever you're moving to carefully. You may have to quarantine your pet after arrival, for example, and some countries and regions don't allow certain animals at all. 
You might find it worth thinking about using a pet relocation service. You could also speak to your vet before leaving to get their advice on how best to make the move.
Double-check all documentation 
In the final couple of days, make sure you have all the documents you need together in a file.
Back to top 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Setting up your finances outside the UK 
Buying a property outside the UK: 5 things you need to know 
Sending money outside the UK: key words and definitions\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/checklist-for-moving-overseas/
########Top of main content 
What are the benefits of a current account? 
From getting paid to being able to shop online, a current account can simplify your financial life. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Engli Captions
Engli Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
Here are some of the key benefits of current accounts.
Manage your everyday banking needs 
Almost all employers will want to pay your wages directly into a current account. You can also use it to access cash and to make payments.
Explore: What bank details do employers need?
Make payments easy 
You can set up Direct Debits or standing orders from your account to make regular payments. Plus, your current account will usually include a debit card, which you can use to make payments in person, online or over the phone.
If you have an app like the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, you can see your balance at anytime from anywhere, as well as make payments and transfers.
Access your cash more easily 
Banks have a network of cash machines you can use to withdraw money from your current account up to a specified limit every day. Some will also allow you to make other transactions, such as paying bills and paying in cheques. Most cash machines are free to use, but always check before using one.
Stay in control of your money 
Many banks offer features like apps and mobile alerts that will tell you what your balance is. They’ll also warn you if you’ve used or are about to use an arranged or unarranged overdraft.
This is to help you monitor your usage and let you know what you can do to avoid interest and fees.
Keep your money protected and secure 
Current accounts with banks and building societies in the UK have the protection of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme Financial Services Compensation Scheme This link will open in a new window (FSCS).
This means, if anything happens to your bank, you'll be covered under the scheme for up to £85,000 per financial institution, or £170,000 for joint accounts.
Explore: How safe is my money?
Build your credit history 
As long as you use it responsibly, having a current account will help you build a credit history – something you'll need if you want to borrow.
If you make payments on time and avoid spending more than your available balance, it can show lenders that you can manage your money.
If you have an arranged overdraft in place, it’s important you don't exceed your limit, as this could negatively affect your credit score. 
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score
Things to know 
You can usually apply to open a UK current account if you're 18 or over and a UK resident. Before applying, read through all the terms and conditions to be certain that it's the right current account for you.
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Opening a current account - what you need 
Banking terms you need to know 
Choosing a bank account\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/current-account-benefits/
########Top of main content 
What is a digital wallet? 
With so many ways to pay for goods - both online and in shops - you might be looking for a way to make things quicker and simpler. 
A digital wallet could be right for you, but it's worth knowing the ins and outs before setting one up.
How does a digital wallet work? 
A digital wallet, also known as an e-wallet, is an electronic device that stores all your payment details in one location. It can make it safer and simpler for you to make cashless purchases online and in shops.
As well as storing your payment details for online payment systems like Google Pay and Apple Pay, digital wallets can also connect with traditional bank accounts and store your credit and debit card information. If you’re an HSBC customer, you can add your HSBC card to Apple Pay, Google Pay and Samsung Pay.
How do you set up a digital wallet? 
Setting up a digital wallet is straightforward. When you’ve chosen your preferred digital wallet provider, enter your payment information and the system will save it securely in one location.
If you want to use your digital wallet via your phone, you'll need to have the relevant app. This will allow you to make contactless payments in shops.
What are the benefits of having a digital wallet? 
Digital wallets can make payments quicker, easier and more secure. They offer:
a single location for all your payment information, so you no longer need to remember several passwords and PINs 
convenience – you can leave your actual wallet at home if you don't want to carry it around 
the ability to make payments online without having to fill in your payment details every time you want to make a purchase 
Are digital wallets safe? 
Things like biometric log on with your fingerprint or your face, are a secure way to log on to your mobile device and also apps like the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Digital wallets use authentication and data encryption to protect your personal information, unlike a traditional wallet where someone can access your payment cards if they take it.
Mobile operating devices are better at protecting users from malicious software than desktop operating systems. However, if you use a digital wallet, you should still take extra safety measures to keep your information safe.
These can include:
using a PIN or fingerprint identification protection on your smartphone 
being vigilant about keeping track of payments made from your digital wallet 
The small print 
Apple and Apple Pay are trademarks of Apple Inc., registered in the U.S. and other countries. Google and Google Play are trademarks of Google LLC. Samsung and Samsung Pay are trademarks or registered trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd. Use only in accordance with the law.
Back to top 
Next steps 
Cyber security: how to bank safely 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Is digital banking secure? 
How to create a strong password 
Credit cards vs debit cards: what's the difference?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/what-is-a-digital-wallet/
########Top of main content 
Complaints data 
Every 6 months both the Financial Conduct AuthorityFinancial Conduct Authority This link will open in a new window and the Financial Ombudsman ServiceFinancial Ombudsman Service This link will open in a new window publish complaints data about individual financial businesses.
Providing excellent customer service and satisfaction is very important to everyone at HSBC, and when things go wrong we want to resolve them quickly and fairly.
We've provided a summary of our complaints data for the second half of 2023. To see how we've done, simply click on one of our three companies below.
HSBC UK Bank plc 
HSBC Bank plc 
HSBC Trust Company (UK) Limited 
HSBC UK Bank plc includes both HSBC Bank and first direct complaints data. To see a summary for HSBC UK Bank plc or for the individual brands, please select a link below. 
HSBC UK Bank plc 
HSBC UK Bank 
first direct 
Firm name: HSBC UK Bank plc
Period covered in this report: 1 July to 31 December 2023
Brands/trading names covered: HSBC UK Bank, first direct
Product/Service Group Number of complaints opened by volume of business
Number of complaints opened
Number of complaints closed
% closed within 3 days
% closed after 3 days but within 8 weeks
% upheld1
Main cause of complaints opened
Banking & Credit Cards 
3.9 per 1,000 accounts
	
105,259
	
102,509
	
70.8%
	
28.9%
	
61.6%
	
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
Home Finance
6.13 per 1,000 balances outstanding
	
5,854
	
6,045
	
39.8%
	
58.4%
	
60.1%
	
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
Insurance and Pure Protection
0.1 per 1,000 policies in force
	
737
	
793
	
28.9%
	
64.4%
	
42.1%
	
Advising/Selling/Arranging
	
Decumulation2 & Pensions
0.12 per 1,000 policies in force
	
39
	
44
	
13.6%
	
61.4%
	
59.1%
	
Advising/ Selling/ Arranging
	
Investments
1.23 per 1,000 client accounts	1,305	1,306	19.0%	74.6%	72.1%	
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
Credit Related
7.37 per 1,000 accounts/loans	6,428	6,317	-	-	51.6%	
-
	
Firm name: HSBC UK Bank plc
Period covered in this report: 1 July to 31 December 2023
Brands/trading names covered: HSBC UK Bank, first direct
Product/Service Group Banking & Credit Cards	
Number of complaints opened by volume of business
3.9 per 1,000 accounts
	
Number of complaints opened
105,259
	
Number of complaints closed
102,509
	
% closed within 3 days
70.8%
	
% closed after 3 days but within 8 weeks
28.9%
	
% upheld1
61.6%
	
Main cause of complaints opened
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
	
Product/Service Group Home Finance
	
Number of complaints opened by volume of business
6.13 per 1,000 balances outstanding
	
Number of complaints opened
5,854
	
Number of complaints closed
6,045
	
% closed within 3 days
39.8%
	
% closed after 3 days but within 8 weeks
58.4%
	
% upheld1
60.1%
	
Main cause of complaints opened
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
	
Product/Service Group 
Insurance and Pure Protection
	
Number of complaints opened by volume of business
0.1 per 1,000 policies in force
	
Number of complaints opened
737
	
Number of complaints closed
793
	
% closed within 3 days
28.9%
	
% closed after 3 days but within 8 weeks
64.4%
	
% upheld1
42.1%
	
Main cause of complaints opened
Advising/Selling/Arranging
	
	
Product/Service Group 
Decumulation2 & Pensions
	
Number of complaints opened by volume of business
0.12 per 1,000 policies in force
	
Number of complaints opened
39
	
Number of complaints closed
44
	
% closed within 3 days
13.6%
	
% closed after 3 days but within 8 weeks
61.4%
	
% upheld1
59.1%
	
Main cause of complaints opened
Advising/ Selling/ Arranging
	
	
Product/Service Group 
Investments
	
Number of complaints opened by volume of business
1.23 per 1,000 client accounts	
Number of complaints opened
1,305	
Number of complaints closed
1,306	
% closed within 3 days
19.0%	
% closed after 3 days but within 8 weeks
74.6%	
% upheld1
72.1%	
Main cause of complaints opened
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
	
Product/Service Group 
Credit Related
	
Number of complaints opened by volume of business
7.37 per 1,000 accounts/loans	
Number of complaints opened
6,428	
Number of complaints closed
6,317	
% closed within 3 days
-	
% closed after 3 days but within 8 weeks
-	
% upheld1
51.6%	
Main cause of complaints opened
-
	
Firm name: HSBC UK Bank plc
Period covered in this report: 1 July to 31 December 2023
Brands/trading names covered: HSBC UK Bank †
Product / Service Group
Number of complaints opened by volume of business
Number of complaints opened
Number of complaints closed
% closed within 3 days
% closed after 3 days but within 8 weeks
% upheld1
Main cause of complaints opened
Banking & Credit Cards
4.03 per 1,000 accounts
	
92,903
	
89,800
	
71.3%
	
28.4%
	
63.7%
	
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
Home Finance
6.36 per 1,000 balances outstanding
	
5,229
	
5,352
	
39.3%
	
58.8%
	
60.7%
	
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
Insurance and Pure Protection
0.1 per 1,000 policies in force
	
675
	
722
	
28.8%
	
64.0%
	
42.2%
	
Advising/Selling/Arranging
	
Decumulation2 & Pensions
0.12 per 1,000 policies in force
	
39
	
44
	
13.6%
	
61.4%
	
59.1%
	
Advising/ Selling/ Arranging
	
Investments
1.16 per 1,000 client accounts
	
1,204
	
1,204
	
18.1%
	
75.2%
	
72.0%
	
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
Credit Related
8.05 per 1,000 accounts/loans
	
6,034
	
5,903
	
-
	
-
	
52.3%
	
-
	
Firm name: HSBC UK Bank plc
Period covered in this report: 1 July to 31 December 2023
Brands/trading names covered: HSBC UK Bank †
Product / Service Group
Banking & Credit Cards
	
Number of complaints opened by volume of business
4.03 per 1,000 accounts
	
Number of complaints opened
92,903
	
Number of complaints closed
89,800
	
% closed within 3 days
71.3%
	
% closed after 3 days but within 8 weeks
28.4%
	
% upheld1
63.7%
	
Main cause of complaints opened
General Admin/ Customer Service
	
	
Product / Service Group
Home Finance
	
Number of complaints opened by volume of business
6.36 per 1,000 balances outstanding
	
Number of complaints opened
5,229
	
Number of complaints closed\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/feedback-and-complaints/complaints-data/
########Top of main content 
Personalise your payment limits 
Set payment limits that suit you 
How personalising your payment limits can help you 
A payment limit is the maximum amount of money you can transfer out of your account each day. You can personalise your payment limits in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Setting a payment limit gives you more control over your account, and helps protect you against scams and fraud.
Personalised limits are only available when sending money to UK personal accounts via online or mobile banking. Payments to companies are limited to £25,000 and can't be changed.
What is my payment limit? 
Your account has a default payment limit of £25,000 per account, per day (£5,000 if you're under 18).
You can temporarily increase or decrease this in the HSBC Mobile Banking app. If you make a limit increase that goes over your default limit, the increase will only apply to the day you make it. Then it will revert back to the default limit.
Can I go above my payment limit? 
You can send money up to your personal payment limit via online and mobile banking. Payments above your limit will be sent as a CHAPS payment. 
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can send a CHAPS payment in branch or by post. If you hold an HSBC Premier account, you can also do this over the phone.
To make a CHAPS payment in branch, you'll need to bring valid ID and the details of the person you want to pay.
Our branch finder can help you find your nearest branch.
How to change your personal payment limits 	
You can personalise your payment limits in the HSBC Mobile Banking app. These limits will apply when you transfer money through online and mobile banking to friends and family. 
Whether you want to reduce or increase your payment limit, here's how to set the limit that suits you.
1. Log on to mobile banking 
In the app, select 'Pay & Transfer', then 'Manage payment limit'. 
2. Select your account 
Select the account you want to manage your personal payment limit for. 
3. Enter payment limit 
Enter the payment limit you'd like for the chosen account. Then, select 'Change limit'. 
4. Confirmation 
You'll get confirmation that your limit has been updated.	
Don't have the app yet? 
Scan the QR code or select the button to download the app to your mobile phone or tablet.
Download app 
Explore more 
What are current account fees and interest rates? 
Understand the fees associated with your account and what you could expect to pay. 
Photo ID and selfie verification tool 
Find out how our in-app tool can help you complete digital registration. 
Mobile banking 
Manage your accounts easily and securely whenever it suits you. The ever-growing range of services on the app make banking more convenient. 
What is a CHAPS payment? 
Find out how to transfer high value payments quickly and securely. 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/existing-customers/change-default-payment-limit/
########Top of main content 
Confirmation of Payee 
HSBC now offers a name checking service called Confirmation of Payee (CoP). It aims to protect against Authorised Push Payment scams and reduce the number of payments sent by mistake.
When you make a one-off payment, set up a new regular payment or amend an existing payment, CoP lets you check you’re paying the right person or business. That way, you can see if the name matches the details you've been told.
CoP will also check your details when a person or business sends you a payment to see if your name matches your account.
Some institutions require a specific reference number to be entered when making a payment. CoP will also check the details to help ensure you're paying the correct account. Examples where this may be required include:
A roll number for some building society accounts
A 16-digit credit card number when paying a credit card bill
For these accounts, when you enter a sort code and account number, CoP will use the reference to ensure the account name is correct. If the details entered in the reference box are invalid or not recognised by the receiving payee Bank, you'll be informed and asked to check the details.
You must ensure that you insert the account holder’s name into the payee box instead of the institution name to allow the check to perform correctly. If you enter the incorrect name, you will get a no match. Check with the person or business who is receiving the money to get the correct details.
Not all payment service providers will enable CoP checks on accounts that require a reference. If you're paying one of those accounts, you'll get a message saying we can’t check the details.
How does name checking affect payments I’m sending? 
We’re already responding to requests sent by other banks for payments you’re receiving. We’re also requesting CoP checks for payments you’re sending to other banks.
You’ll see this feature whenever you’re making payments from UK personal or business accounts.
CoP applies to payments made online, on our mobile app, by phone and in a branch, using faster payments or CHAPs.
It only applies to payments made in pounds sterling.
How does name checking work? 
Checks are carried out to make sure the account details you provide match those held by the bank of the person or business being paid.
This applies to new payments and changes to existing payments.
The checks are to confirm the account type (business or personal), the account name and if applicable the reference, match the records held by the recipient’s bank.
Full match 
Illustration showing full match of details 
Sending payment: you’ve used the correct account type and account name so you can go ahead and make the payment.
Receiving payment: the person sending the payment has used your correct account type and account name so they can make the payment.
Close match 
Illustration showing close match of details 
Sending payment: you’ve used a similar name. We’ll share the actual account name with you and confirm whether or not the account type is correct. You can then decide whether to make the payment or check with the person or business you’re paying.
Receiving payment: the person making the payment has used a similar name. We’ll share your actual account name with the sender’s bank and confirm whether or not the account type is correct for them to pass on to the sender. The sender can then decide whether to make the payment or check with you.
No match 
Illustration showing no match of details 
Sending payments: the receiving bank has advised that the details you’ve entered don’t match the name held on the account. You should check with the person you're paying before going ahead - but you can decide to make the payment without checking. If you contact someone you’re trying to pay, make sure you call a trusted number that you know is genuine.
Receiving payment: the person paying you can decide to go ahead without checking - so you might receive the payment anyway.
Payee account is not supported/Unable to check name 
This means we can’t do a Confirmation of Payee check. Either the bank you’re sending the money to doesn’t do CoP checks, or the type of account you’re sending the money to doesn’t support these checks. It can also mean that the person you’re paying has switched their account to a new one.
There might also be a technical issue which means do a Confirmation of Payee check. You’ll see a response saying there’s a systems problem and recommending you try again later.
Payee account details are invalid/Account not found 
This means the account number and/or sort code are incorrect. In this case, you won’t be able to make the payment and should contact the person or business you’re trying to pay to get the correct details.
Reference details are invalid/Account not found 
The receiving bank has told us the reference entered is not valid. You should check with the person or business you're paying before going ahead. You can make payments without checking, but we don't recommend it as it may be a scam. Always use a trusted number you know is genuine.
Some exceptions 
If you do make a payment where there’s no exact match, you’ll need to accept that your money could go to the wrong account and you may not get it back.
What should I do to help anyone paying me? 
Is your account for personal use or for your business? 
You can help by telling anyone making a payment to you the account type when you give them your account details. If you’re unsure of your account type, please contact us.
Is the name they're inputting correct? 
The name we hold for your account might not be the name the person is inputting. For example, they may be inputting Jim but your account name is James or they may know you as Jim the plumber but your business account is in the name of James Smith Plumbing Limited. 
If you’re not sure, you can check your account by:
logging on to online banking
checking your statement on mobile banking
contacting us
For joint accounts, the\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/confirmation-of-payee/
########Top of main content 
Income and expenditure form 
Fill in our form, so that we can understand your situation and give you support 
Get personalised financial support 
If you've missed a bill or payment, or think you might do soon, let us know as soon as you can.
Answer a few questions on our income and expenditure form to give us a better idea of your current financial situation. This can help us to give you personalised support, no matter what financial difficulty you might be experiencing.
What to expect 
We’ve teamed up with consents.onlineconsents.online This link will open in a new window to give you a safe and secure way to tell us about your income and expenditure. It should only take 10 to 15 minutes to complete and it won’t impact your credit rating.
We'll ask you for:
basic information about yourself
your current employment status
your current monthly income and outgoings – such as your salary and mortgage payments or rent 
Who can fill in the form? 
If you're the main card or account holder, you can get personalised support.
In the case of joint accounts for a loan or mortgage, either account holder can get support after filling in the form. You only need to complete one form between you – but you'll need to provide information for the second account holder as well.
Fill in the income and expenditure form 
Answer a few questions to let us know what you're going through.
Complete the form Complete the form This link will open in a new window 
If you’re registered for Open Banking, you can save time by having the information from your bank statements and bills pre-populated in the form. The easiest way to use Open Banking is to open the income and expenditure form straight from your mobile, but you can also use your browser.
What happens next? 
Once you’ve submitted the form, we’ll contact you within 5 working days to let you know how we can support you.
This may include further tailored support online, or a call with one of our friendly team, who'll be able to use the information you've already provided to work out the best options for you. There’s no need to contact us, we’ll keep you informed every step of the way.
Just so you know, some of the solutions we offer may impact your credit rating, but we’ll let you know if this is the case.
Frequently asked questions
How does Open Banking work? 
Open Banking can save you time by having the information from your bank statements and bills pre-populated in the income and expenditure form. The easiest way to use Open Banking is to open the form straight from your mobile.
consents.online is a regulated provider of Open Banking, and using it will allow access to your current account information from your account provider and share it with us to assess your current financial position. It's a quick and secure way to complete your income and expenditure form.
Find out more about Open Banking 
Find out more about consents.online Find out more about consents.online This link will open in a new window 
How secure is Open Banking? 
Open Banking has put safeguards in place to make it's secure. Companies who provide Open Banking services must:
comply with data protection laws
be registered with, or authorised, by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
be registered with the Open Banking Implementation Entity (OBIE)
Find out more about Open Banking 
Will using Open Banking affect my credit rating? 
No, using it won’t have any impact on your credit rating.
What's consents.online? 
consents.onlineconsents.online This link will open in a new window is a regulated provider of Open Banking that lets you be sure that you're only sharing the information you want to, when you want to. And you can be sure you know exactly who's looking at it.
This is provided free of charge to help you provide your information for the income and expenditure form more quickly and easily. 
How do I use consents.online? 
To use consents.onlineconsents.online This link will open in a new window through Open Banking, you'll need the username and password you use to log on to your main bank account. This will be the account where you receive your salary and make bill payments from.
The easiest way to use consents.online is to open the income and outgoings form from your mobile, but you can also use your browser.
Get in touch 
If you’d rather speak to our financial support team first, they'll be able to talk to you and try to find a solution that's right for you. You can speak to us on Chat - or give us a call on:
Mortgages: 0800 085 2482
Credit cards, loans or overdrafts: 0800 028 7183
Our team can also help if you've got a question about filling in the income and outgoings form.
Lines are open 08:00 - 18:00 Monday to Friday, and 08:00 - 16:00 on Saturdays (excluding public holidays). We may monitor or record calls.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/money-worries/assessing-income-and-expenditure/
########Top of main content 
Temporary arranged overdraft support 
Need a hand with the rising cost of living? We are offering temporary support measures on overdraft borrowing across eligible accounts. Just request support by 27 April 2024.
Close 
A helping hand with the rising cost of living 
With prices continuing to rise sharply, our focus is on offering support wherever we can. That's why we're bringing in temporary measures to help those most in need to pay less for their arranged overdraft borrowing on our Bank Account, Advance Account, Bank Account Pay Monthly and Current Account11 view footnote 1.
We won't charge you interest on your arranged overdraft up to and including £500 for 6 months. Please note that customers who requested support before 27 October 2023 will have 12 months of temporary arranged overdraft support.
After your temporary arranged overdraft support is over, we’ll start to apply our full standard overdraft pricing again. Here's a reminder of what we’ll charge for these accounts. 
Bank Account, Advance Bank Account, Bank Account Pay Monthly and Current Account11 view footnote 1 Interest free amount Interest rate above the interest-free amount 
Overdraft pricing during temporary support period	£500	39.9% EAR variable	
Overdraft pricing after temporary support period	£25	39.9% EAR variable	
After your temporary arranged overdraft support is over, we’ll start to apply our full standard overdraft pricing again. Here's a reminder of what we’ll charge for these accounts. 
Bank Account, Advance Bank Account, Bank Account Pay Monthly and Current Account11 view footnote 1 Overdraft pricing during temporary support period	
Interest free amount £500	
Interest rate above the interest-free amount 39.9% EAR variable	
	
Bank Account, Advance Bank Account, Bank Account Pay Monthly and Current Account11 view footnote 1 Overdraft pricing after temporary support period	
Interest free amount £25	
Interest rate above the interest-free amount 39.9% EAR variable	
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable) on the first £500, 39.9% EAR22 view footnote 2 (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 21.8% APR33 view footnote 3 (variable). Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
These rates won’t apply if you have an account with a negotiated rate (where we’ve separately agreed a non-standard rate for your overdraft).
This support is designed to help those who are having financial difficulties because of the rising cost of living. We encourage you to ask for this extra support only if you need it.
Please note: we won't automatically increase existing overdraft limits or add a limit if you do not already have an arranged overdraft on your account. If you want to add an arranged overdraft to your account or increase your existing limit, you can apply for this online through our Manage Overdraft Service.
Requesting this temporary arranged overdraft support will not affect your credit file.
How do I ask for the temporary support? 
Just fill out our short online form. You’ll need your: 
account sort code
account number 
You can find these details on your debit card, statements or the account summary screen in online and mobile banking. 
If your overdraft is on a joint account, only one account holder needs to complete the form. However, you should agree with the other account holder that you will apply for both of you before submitting the form.
Once we’ve processed your request, we’ll be in touch as soon as possible. This could take up to 7 working days as we’re expecting a high number of requests, so please bear with us.
We'll contact you by email or send you a letter with an update. We won’t be able to tell you over the phone. If your mailing preference is set to paper correspondence, it could take up to 3 weeks to receive your decision letter.
If you need help with this form, please contact us and we’ll be happy to help.
Applying for the first time? 
It can take up to 7 days to process your overdraft support request, and we'll be in touch as soon as possible.
Request temporary support 
Had support before? 
You can only apply for additional overdraft support when your current support ends. It can take up to 7 days for the new support to be added.
How does it work? 
If your request is accepted, we’ll apply the support to all eligible current accounts with us. The support will be applied to your account(s) from the date detailed in the confirmation email or letter you will receive.
If joint account details are entered, support will be added to ALL eligible accounts for both parties.
If sole account details are entered, support will be added to ALL eligible accounts for that party only. This will also apply to any joint accounts held.
Before the end of your temporary arranged overdraft support, we’ll remind you that your support is coming to an end and let you know about any further support you might need. At the end of this, your overdraft charges will revert to our standard pricing.
These are temporary measures and not a change to your current terms, which remain the same. If you wish to apply for a new or a higher arranged overdraft limit, please visit our Overdrafts page on how to apply. Once you've been approved for an arranged overdraft limit, you'll need to come back to this page and complete the online form to request the support.
Will this affect my credit rating? 
Your credit file will not be affected if you ask for temporary arranged overdraft support.
If you go into an unarranged overdraft, this may adversely affect your credit file. An unarranged overdraft is when your account goes overdrawn and you don’t have an arranged overdraft, or you go over your arranged overdraft limit. We will report to credit reference agencies, accounts that have been i\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/money-worries/overdraft-support/
########Top of main content 
What is a loan shark? 
A loan shark is someone who lends money illegally. They often charge high interest rates and may use violence or intimidation if you don’t pay them back. 
If you’ve borrowed money from a loan shark or are worried about someone else, help is available. You can report a loan shark in strict confidence by visiting Stop Loan Sharks Stop Loan Sharks This link will open in a new window.
If you’ve been threatened by a loan shark or are at risk of harm, contact the police straight away.
How do loan sharks operate? 
Loan sharks are not regulated and authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Instead, they operate outside of the law – offering cash loans with extremely high interest rates, with no paperwork or clear repayment terms. 
Loan sharks tend to target those in financial difficulty. When you struggle to repay the loan, they may use threatening behaviour and pressure you into borrowing more from them to repay one debt with another.
Even if you borrow a small amount, dealing with a loan shark can quickly spiral out of control where you end up owing them a lot of money.
How to spot a loan shark 
Spotting a loan shark is not always easy. They can seem friendly and supportive at first, to lure you into a false sense of security. They could even be a family member or friend. 
Loan sharks typically:
offer cash loans but some may operate online too 
add extremely high amounts of interest or APR to your loan 
do not provide any paperwork or clear information, such as the repayment terms 
offer to lend you money with no credit checks or affordability assessments 
take your valuables as a ‘security’ on the loan, including your passport and bank cards 
use threats or force until you repay the loan 
pressure you into borrowing more money, so you remain in debt to them 
Some loan sharks pretend to be doorstop or payday lenders – offering short-term loans for small sums of money. However, these lenders need to be authorised by the FCA.
Be cautious of anyone who approaches you and offers you a loan, especially if you haven’t known them for very long.
How to check if a lender is authorised 
To be able to lend money legally in the UK, lenders need to be authorised and regulated by the FCA. This is to protect you and your money.
It’s important to always check if a lender is listed on the Financial Services register check if a lender is listed on the Financial Services register This link will open in a new window, and they are who they say they are.
What to do if you’ve borrowed money from a loan shark 
Roughly 310,000 people in the UK are estimated to owe money to illegal money lenders.11 view footnote 1 
Stop Loan Sharks will help you get safely away from loan sharks. You can call them on 0300 555 222 or complete an online form to report a loan shark online form to report a loan shark This link will open in a new window in strict confidence.
Remember, it’s not illegal to borrow this money – it’s the illegal lender who’s breaking the law. You don’t need to worry about getting into trouble with the police if you report it. 
How to identify a victim of a loan shark 
Sometimes, the behaviour of a family member or friend can cause concern. Here are some of the signs to look for. They might:
have debt that keeps growing even though regular payments are being made 
say bad things will happen to them if they don’t pay on time 
receive threatening messages about money being owed 
hand over benefits, money, or personal items (such as their bank card, passport, or jewellery) to someone they owe money to 
feel afraid or anxious about visitors coming to their home 
not want to leave their house and stop seeing friends and family 
become anxious, depressed, withdrawn and experience suicidal thoughts 
show signs of physical violence, such as bruises, sprains or cuts 
How to help a victim of a loan shark 
If you believe someone you know may be a victim of a loan shark, it’s important to:
listen carefully and give them time to talk 
acknowledge they’re in a scary and difficult situation but there’s a way out 
remind them it’s not their fault, and they are not alone 
let them know the loan shark has no legal right to recover the debt 
suggest they visit a hospital or GP if they’ve experienced any physical harm 
Stop Loan Sharks has a helpline you can call anytime (0300 555 2222) for confidential advice and support, as well as a Live Chat. 
For more information, visit Stop Loan Sharks: Worried about someone else Stop Loan Sharks: Worried about someone else This link will open in a new window.
Help with money worries and debt 
If you (or someone you know) is anxious about money or feel overwhelmed with debt – there’s help available. StepChange StepChange This link will open in a new window and National Debtline National Debtline This link will open in a new window provide free advice and support to help you tackle your debt.
If you bank with us and need support, please get in touch – we’re also here to help with any money worries or financial anxiety you may have.
1 Source: Illegal Money Lending Team (IMLT): Stop Loan Sharks Illegal Money Lending Team (IMLT): Stop Loan Sharks This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
What next? 
Help with money worries 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to talk about money 
How to get out of debt 
Buy now pay later: what you need to know\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/money-worries/what-is-a-loan-shark/
########Top of main content 
Telephone banking FAQs 
Table of contents 
Can I set up Voice ID when I'm in the branch?
If I'm ill or sound a bit different, will Voice ID still work?
If I'm in a noisy place or it's a bad line, will Voice ID still work?
If I have a speech impediment or use a voice box, will Voice ID still work?
Can I use Voice ID on behalf of someone for whom I am a carer or hold Power of Attorney? 
Can someone record my voice and use it to access my account? 
What if I don't know my telephone security number? Can I still use Voice ID? 
I'm worried about my voice being recorded?
Can I set up Voice ID when I'm in the branch? 
Yes. One of our customer service representatives will take you to a phone in a quiet area so you can make the call to set it up.
If I’m ill or sound a bit different, will Voice ID still work? 
Voice ID will still work when you are suffering from a general cold or sore throat. In exceptional situations where you have a more severe illness that affects your voice, we'll verify you using a different method.
If I'm in a noisy place or it's a bad line, will Voice ID still work? 
We may not be able to recognise your voice if the line is bad or it's noisy in the background. If that happens, we'll transfer you to an agent who will verify you by asking you some security questions. Alternatively, you could call us back when you're somewhere less noisy or from a different phone.
If I have a speech impediment or use a voice box, will Voice ID still work? 
It should be possible for you to set up Voice ID if you have a speech impediment. We'll just need to ensure we can get at least three strong recordings of you repeating the pass phrase. However, you may find it easier to continue using your telephone banking security number.
We don't recommend setting up Voice ID if you use a voice box or speech synthesiser since some of these use a standard voice that won’t be unique to you.
Can I use Voice ID on behalf of someone for whom I am a carer or hold Power of Attorney? 
Yes, you can set up Voice ID on any account that you have permission to operate.
Can someone record my voice and use it to access my account? 
Our systems will detect if a recording of your voice is being played. And we'll recognise an imposter trying to imitate your voice, because your voice is unique in the same way your fingerprint is.
What if I don't know my telephone security number? Can I still use Voice ID? 
If you've called to set up Voice ID and don't know your telephone security number, we'll transfer you to an agent.
They'll ask you some additional security questions, and if you answer these correctly you'll be able to set up Voice ID. If you can't answer the questions, you'll need to pop into a branch with some photo ID so we can reset your security.
I'm worried about my voice being recorded? 
We already record all our telephone banking calls for training and security purposes. Voice ID is a new technology that uses voice biometrics to create your voiceprint. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/phone-banking/faqs/
########Top of main content 
Request a Direct Debit refund 
Whether it’s an unauthorised payment or an incorrect amount, you can request a Direct Debit refund in your mobile banking app 
How to request a Direct Debit refund 
If a Direct Debit doesn’t look quite right, you can request a refund in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Before you begin 
You can only request a refund if there's a disagreement about the amounts, dates, or you don't recognise the Direct Debit.
Contact the company first if you have any queries about the Direct Debit instruction.
If you think this Direct Debit is fraudulent, please contact us via the support tab.
Submitting your request 
1. Log on 
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app and select the relevant account in the accounts tab. 
2. Find the Direct Debit 
Go to 'Manage bills' and select the Direct Debit you want to be refunded. 
3. Request Direct Debit refund 
Select 'Request a refund'. In the dropdown menu, choose a reason for the refund request and what payments need to be refunded. 
4. Submit refund request 
Tap 'Continue' and read all the information before submitting your refund request. 
Things you should know 
What happens after I submit my request? 
We’ll aim to credit your refund within 2 working days. If further checks are required, it may take longer.
Requesting a refund won’t cancel the Direct Debit instruction. You can cancel it via ‘Manage bills’.
If the company finds the funds were debited in line with the Direct Debit scheme, we'll reclaim the refund from your account.
We have the right to decline this claim under the Direct Debit scheme if we believe no error has been made.
The Direct Debit Guarantee 
The Direct Debit Guarantee protects you if there's an error with a Direct Debit payment. These include: 
payments taken after the Direct Debit is cancelled
payments taken on the wrong date
wrong amounts being collected
Find out more about the Direct Debit GuaranteeFind out more about the Direct Debit Guarantee This link will open in a new window
Get started with your Direct Debit refund 
You can request a refund directly in your HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Download the app 
You might also be interested in 
Managing your account 
Our hub has all the information you need about managing your account online. 
How to set up or cancel a Direct Debit 
Learn about Direct Debits and the different ways you can set up, amend, or cancel them. 
Make a payment online 
Send money securely and quickly with mobile and online banking. 
Query a transaction 
We have support available if you need to dispute a recent transaction. 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/how-to-request-a-direct-debit-refund/
########Top of main content 
Community banking 
Community banking services to help you manage your money 
Get face-to-face support when you need it 
Get guidance and support from our branch experts at Banking Hubs and community pop-up events.
Our branch finder tool also shows what you'll find there, including community banking or cash services.
How community pop-up events can help you 
Our community pop-up events are a great way to learn about how to make the most of banking with us.
You can have face-to-face conversations with some of our branch experts in selected local communities across the UK.
Services available at community pop-ups 
Our branch experts at community pop-up events can give you guidance and support on the different ways you can do your banking. They can also offer important advice on how to reduce the risk of fraud on your account and the services available at the Post Office. 
Our experts will also be on hand to help with queries about our products and services. However, if you need to withdraw money or cash a cheque, you'll need to visit your local branch or post office.
Here's a full list of what's on offer at a community pop-up event:
Information about our products and services
Online and mobile banking registrations and resets
Education on digital banking
Education on how to reduce the risk of fraud
Education on access to banking services
Education on Post Office services
Help with digital banking at community pop-ups 
If you're registered for digital banking, our branch experts at community pop-up events can also help you with:
Making payments up to your account's personal payment limit to new or existing beneficiaries within the UK
Making an international payment
Creating, amending or deleting standing orders
Viewing or cancelling Direct Debits
Viewing statements
Reporting lost, stolen or damaged cards
Depositing one or more cheques with a limit of up to £2,000 per day via the mobile app
Community pop-up locations 
Community pop-up events are taking place at selected locations in the UK. Use our branch finder tool to locate one close to you.
How Banking Hubs can help you 
Banking Hubs are fully accessible shared banking spaces.
They offer a counter service operated by the Post Office, where customers of all major banks and building societies can carry out regular cash transactions.
The Hubs also offer a Community Banker service where customers can talk to their own banking provider about more complicated banking issues.
Services available at Banking Hubs 
The Banking Hub counter will offer the same banking services you would expect in a Post Office branch, to allow you to take care of your everyday banking needs.
Using your debit card, you can complete a number of services:
Deposit cash
Withdraw cash
Pay in cheques
Balance enquiries
Change Giving Lite (registered business customers)
Please visit our Post Office banking page to learn more about each service provided.
Community Bankers at Banking Hubs 
An HSBC Community Banker will also be available at Banking Hubs on certain days, so that you can speak about more complex banking issues.
A different bank or building society will be available on each day of the week and services are available without appointments. In this way, HSBC Community Bankers will be available to support you with many of the services we offer in our HSBC branches.
Some of the key services, for personal and business banking customers, available through our Community Bankers at Banking Hubs include:
Personal banking services 
Personal banking service Available at Banking Hubs? 
Withdraw cash from current account	
Yes – this can be done at the Post Office counter in the Banking Hub.
Visit our Post Office banking page for more information.
	
Deposit cash on current account	
Yes – this can be done at the Post Office counter in the Banking Hub.
Visit our Post Office banking page for more information.
	
Transfer money between current accounts	
Yes.
Visit our Making payments page for more information.
	
Make a payment	
Yes.
Visit our Making payments page for more information.
	
Report a card lost or stolen
	
Yes.
Visit our PIN services page for more information.
	
Order a replacement card	
Yes.
Visit our PIN services page for more information.
	
Order or reset PIN	
Yes.
Visit our PIN services page for more information.
	
Help with or registering for online, app-based or telephone banking	
Yes
Visit our Ways to bank page for more information.
	
Provide evidence of identity	
Yes.
Visit our What you need for an ID check page for more information.
	
Register a bereavement	
Yes.
Visit our Bereavement help page for more information.
	
Add / remove a third-party mandate to / from current account	
Yes.
Visit our Third party mandate page for more information.
	
Add / remove a power of attorney to / from current account	
Yes.
Visit our Power of attorney page for more information.
	
Register a vulnerability	
Yes.
Visit our Supporting customer needs page for more information.
	
Fraud / scam support	
Yes.
Visit our Fraud and security centre page for more information.
	
Money management / debt advice	
Yes.
Visit our Money worries page for more information.
	
Register a complaint	
Yes.
Visit our Feedback and complaints page for more information.
	
Personal banking service Withdraw cash from current account	
Available at Banking Hubs? 
Yes – this can be done at the Post Office counter in the Banking Hub.
Visit our Post Office banking page for more information.
	
	
Personal banking service Deposit cash on current account	
Available at Banking Hubs? 
Yes – this can be done at the Post Office counter in the Banking Hub.
Visit our Post Office banking page for more information.
	
	
Personal banking service Transfer money between current accounts	
Available at Banking Hubs? 
Yes.
Visit our Making payments page for more information.
	
	
Personal banking service Make a payment	
Available at Banking Hubs? 
Yes.
Visit our Making payments page for more information.
	
	
Personal banki\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/community-events/
########Top of main content 
Change your address 
Update your home or correspondence address - online, over the phone or in branch 
Take me straight to 
Mobile Banking app 
Online banking 
Phone banking 
In branch 
Things to know 
Mobile Banking app 
Log on to your mobile app and follow these steps. 
1. Go to your profile
This is an icon in the top right-hand corner of the screen.
2. Find your details
Select 'Update your personal details' and then choose 'Contact details'.
3. Change your address
Select the address and follow the instructions.
Online banking 
Log on to online banking and follow these steps.
1. Go to your account
From the 'Account services' menu, select 'Personal and address details'.
2. Find your details
Go to the 'Address details' section to find the address.
3. Change your address
Select 'Edit' to change the address and follow the instructions.
Log on and change address Log on and change address This link will open in a new window 
Phone banking 
If you're not registered for mobile or online banking, you can call us to update your address over the phone.
Call us
Personal customers
03457 404 404
Premier customers
03457 707 070
Business customers
0800 032 1770
Outside the UK
+44 144 242 2929
In branch 
Come to your nearest branch and we'll be happy to help you. Please remember to bring ID so we can confirm your identity. 
Find your nearest branch 
Things to know 
Joint account holders may need to update their addresses separately.
It may take up to 7 days to update these accounts; credit cards, InvestDirect, Child Trust fund, Premier Investment Management Service investment, stocks and shares ISAs, mortgages.
We cannot change your address to a PO Box online - you'll need to do this in a branch.
You can also update your nationality, employment details and employer address (including those with BFPO postcodes) by logging on to mobile banking, and then selecting your profile icon in the top right hand corner of the screen. Select ‘Update your personal details’ then choose ‘Employment details’ and follow the on screen instructions. You can also do this through online banking, by selecting ‘Your personal details’ under the ‘Account services’ menu.
Useful links
How to change your name or title
Visit your nearest branch and we'll be happy to update your name or title.
How to change your contact details
Keep your phone number and email address up to date, so we can stay in touch.
How to update your gender
Find out how to change the gender we have on record, or change to a gender-neutral title.
Register for digital banking
Register for digital banking with us through our Mobile Banking app or online banking. 
Back to top\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/update-your-details/change-address/
########Top of main content 
Change your name or title 
Visit your nearest branch and we'll be happy to update your name or title 
Take me straight to 
Name change 
Title change 
Name change 
You'll need to bring in proof of your:
name change
previous or other name, such as your driving licence, passport or birth certificate
Documents we accept for proof of name change: 
Reason for change Document 
Marriage	Marriage certificate – if it's online, bring along another document in your new name	
Civil partnership	Civil partnership schedule	
Divorce	Divorce decree absolute – if it isn't in English, it must be professionally translated	
Civil partnership dissolution	Final court order	
Adoption	Adoption certificate	
Re-registration of a birth	Amended birth certificate	
Death of partner	Death certificate and marriage certificate	
All other name changes	Witnessed deed poll or statutory declaration	
Documents we accept for proof of name change: 
Reason for change Marriage	
Document Marriage certificate – if it's online, bring along another document in your new name	
	
Reason for change Civil partnership	
Document Civil partnership schedule	
	
Reason for change Divorce	
Document Divorce decree absolute – if it isn't in English, it must be professionally translated	
	
Reason for change Civil partnership dissolution	
Document Final court order	
	
Reason for change Adoption	
Document Adoption certificate	
	
Reason for change Re-registration of a birth	
Document Amended birth certificate	
	
Reason for change Death of partner	
Document Death certificate and marriage certificate	
	
Reason for change All other name changes	
Document Witnessed deed poll or statutory declaration	
Title change 
For most title changes you won't need to show us any documents, but for some titles, proof is required. If you're changing gender, you'll need to update this information separately. 
New title Document 
Doctor	Doctorate or Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery Certificate, such as an MBBS	
Armed forces	Armed forces ID card	
All other titles	No document needed	
Title change 
For most title changes you won't need to show us any documents, but for some titles, proof is required. If you're changing gender, you'll need to update this information separately. 
New title Doctor	
Document Doctorate or Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery Certificate, such as an MBBS	
	
New title Armed forces	
Document Armed forces ID card	
	
New title All other titles	
Document No document needed	
Come and see us 
Now you know what you need to bring, look up your nearest branch with our branch finder.
Find a branch 
Useful links
How to change your address
Update your home or correspondence address - online, over the phone or in branch.
How to change your contact details
Keep your phone number and email address up to date, so we can stay in touch.
How to update your gender
Find out how to change the gender we have on record, or change to a gender-neutral title.
Back to top\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/update-your-details/change-name/
########Top of main content 
How to close your bank account 
Ways to close an account 
HSBC offers a wide variety of products and services. Before you consider closing an account, why not take a look at our current accounts? You may find an account or product more suited to your needs.
When closing an account, it's important to understand whether you'll be:
closing individual accounts - closing one or more accounts with HSBC, but keeping others open
closing all accounts - closing every account you hold with HSBC
Online Banking 
To close your account through Online Banking: 

Log on to Online BankingLog on to Online Banking This link will open in a new window.
Select 'Chat'.
Chat to one of our agents and let them know you’d like to close your account.

Most accounts will be closed overnight once you've made your request. However, some account closures can take up to 7 working days, so don't worry if yours isn't closed straight away.
Mobile Banking app 
To close your account through our app:
Log on to the app.
Select ‘Support’.
Select ‘Chat with us’.
Chat to one of our agents and let them know you’d like to close your account.

Most accounts will be closed overnight once you've made your request. However, some account closures can take up to 7 working days, so don't worry if yours isn't closed straight away.
Telephone 
You can request the closure of an account through telephone banking. Following your request most accounts can be closed overnight, however some account closures can take up to 7 working days before being completed.
If you're registered for telephone banking you can call us on 03457 404404 (03457 707070 for Premier Customers) and we can assist you with closing your account. For credit card closures please call us on 0345 600 7010.
Branch 
You can also visit us in any branch and a member of our team will assist you with closing an account. Following your request most accounts can be closed overnight, however some account closures can take up to 7 working days before being completed. 
Find a branch.
Because we don't want to keep you waiting, we recommend that, where possible, you contact us to book an appointment at your convenience.
Whilst we'll always aim to identify you from our existing records, we recommend you bring Identification with you to ensure that we can verify you as our customer. We suggest you bring any cards, credit books, chequebooks and secure keys with you (if applicable) so we can securely destroy them and help you to protect your information. All cards and cheque books will be cancelled on receipt of your closure request.
Account closure form 
You can print and complete the Account closure form at home and bring this into branch for us to check before closing an account.
Account closure form (PDF, 109KB) Account closure form (PDF, 109KB) Download 
Alternatively, you can send the form to us by post to the following address:
HSBC UK Bank plc
Customer Service Centre
BX8 1HB
Or if mailing from outside the UK or by courier, post to:
HSBC UK Bank plc
51 Saffron Road
Wigston
Leicester
LE18 4AG
If your signature does not match the one that we hold on file for you, your account will not be closed. We'll write to you requesting you sign a new signature mandate before we can close the account. To avoid any unnecessary delays, we suggest taking the form to a branch or completing the process via secure message. For joint accounts, signatures from all parties are required.
Key information 
Balance 
You can only close accounts with a nil balance. This means that if your account is overdrawn or in credit, you'll need to either deposit or withdraw funds to ensure a zero balance. We can arrange to move funds from/to another HSBC account in your name.
If a credit balance is going to a non-HSBC account please have the account information to hand. Please note that payments over £10,000 or international payments will incur a charge. There is no charge for accounts being closed via the Current Account Switch Service and/or when transferring an ISA to another ISA provider.
Charges and interest 
Interest and charges being applied to the account may not have been applied at the time of closure. You remain liable for any debit interest and charges, and we'll require you to repay any money owed to us. This includes the amount of any cheques you've issued, any card transactions you've made that are paid by us after closure and any charges incurred.
Direct debits and standing orders 
If applicable, we can transfer all direct debits and standing orders to another HSBC account in your name. Please note that direct debits and standing orders cannot be transferred to savings accounts.
All direct debits and standing orders will be cancelled if you don't transfer them to another HSBC account.
If you're transferring your direct debits to another HSBC account in your name, we'll advise all parties of the changes. Otherwise you'll need to let the direct debit recipients know the new details.
Early closures 
With certain accounts there are financial and other consequences to early closure. It's essential that you understand what these are and are aware of the terms before deciding to close the account.
Current account switch service 
If you're switching current accounts via the current account switch service, your account will automatically be closed and you don't need to take any further action. However, your other accounts will remain open unless you ask us to close them.
Statements 
Once you've closed your account, the online statement history will no longer be available. You may wish to print or download any statements before closing your account to ensure your records are complete.
Transaction history provided at account closure 
Once we have closed your account, we will provide your transaction history (free of charge) covering a period of up to 5 years. We are not required to provide transaction history relating to any payment transaction that occurred 5 or more years prior to the date of account\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/closing-an-account/
########Top of main content 
Dormant, inactive and lost bank accounts 
Table of contents 
If you have an account you’re no longer using
If we’ve told you we may freeze or close your account
If we’ve frozen an account that was inactive
If you’d like to reactivate a frozen account
If you’d like to reactivate a frozen account and you're living outside the UK
If you’d like to reactive a non-continuous cash ISA
If you’ve lost track of an account you had with us
If you have an HSBC Premier or HSBC Advance account
The Dormant Accounts Scheme
To keep you safe, we continue to review accounts. If you don't use an account regularly, we may class it as inactive, dormant or, in the case of ISAs, non-continuous.
A dormant or inactive account is one that hasn't been used for an extended period of time (typically 2 years).
An ISA is non-continuous when it hasn’t been paid into for a full tax year (6 April to 5 April). If all of your accounts are inactive or dormant, we may freeze or close them. This means you’ll no longer be able to make transactions. You can still withdraw from a non-continuous cash ISA if you need the funds.
Here’s some information to help if you:
find yourself with a dormant, inactive or non-continuous account
lose track of an account altogether
If you have an account you’re no longer using 
We may notify you that one of your accounts is inactive via SMS text message, email, letter or by a banner that appears when you’re logged on to Online Banking. You’ll then have these options:
keep your account open by making a transaction and using it regularly
change it to an alternative HSBC account
close the account
Freezing or closing your account 
To protect you from financial crime and fraud we periodically review all accounts. We prevent unauthorised transactions being made on inactive accounts by:
freezing inactive accounts that have a credit balance
closing inactive accounts that have a zero balance
We’ll continue to send you a statement for your account at least annually.
If you have other accounts with us, they won’t be frozen or closed if they’re still in use.
If you’d like to reactivate a frozen account 
Before we reactivate your account, we'll need to check your details are up to date, including your ID and address. Once it’s up and running again, just make a transaction and continue using it regularly to keep it active. 
You can: 
call us on 03457 404 404 - we may need to ask you some security questions to confirm your identity if you do not regularly use phone banking 
visit us in branch with your account details (as shown in your cheque book, statement or other correspondence from us), some acceptable ID that will help us identify you and a proof of your address 
Find a branch 
If you’d like to reactivate a frozen account and you're living outside the UK 
Before we reactivate your account, we'll need to check your details are up to date, including your ID and address. Once it’s up and running again, just make a transaction and continue using it regularly to keep it active. To reactivate between the hours of:
8am to 8pm UK time - call us on 03457 404 404, or +44 1226 261 010 from outside the UK. We may need to ask you some security questions to confirm your identity if you don't regularly use phone banking
8pm to 8am UK time - you can start a chat from this page by selecting the Chat button. When connected with an agent, you'll be asked to provide some details. You'll then be able to arrange a call back within 48 hours, where we may need to check some details ahead of reactivating your account
If you’d like to reactivate a non-continuous cash ISA 
If you haven’t subscribed into your ISA for a full tax year (6 April-5 April) it becomes ‘non-continuous’. This means you won’t be able to subscribe to it until you reactivate it.
If your ISA is non-continuous and you’d like to reactivate it, you can use our online reactivation form.online reactivation form. This link will open in a new window
To stop an ISA from becoming non-continuous, you need to make at least one subscription into the account each tax year.
If you’ve lost track of an account you had with us 
We want to help you find your lost or forgotten money. If you think you had an account with us you can no longer access, contact us so we can try to locate it.
If we can’t find it for you, try visiting mylostaccount.org.ukmylostaccount.org.uk This link will open in a new window. This is a free service site set up by UK Finance, the Building Societies Association (BSA) and National Savings and Investments (NS&I) to trace lost accounts.
If you have an HSBC Premier or HSBC Advance account 
If your account is frozen, you’ll continue to have access to the benefits and privileges that come with an HSBC Premier of HSBC Advance account (save that the account will be blocked). However, if your account is closed all these will cease.
The Dormant Accounts Scheme 
We take part in the Dormant Accounts Scheme, established under the Dormant Bank and Building Societies Act 2008. If your account is in credit and has been dormant for 15 years or more, we may transfer the balance to Reclaim Fund Limited (RFL). 
RFL is a not-for-profit organisation authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. However, if you have another account with us which is being used, we won't transfer your dormant account money to the central fund.
The aim of the scheme is to enable money in dormant accounts to be shared out for the benefit of the community, at the same time protecting the rights of customers to reclaim their money. Under the terms of the Unclaimed Assets Scheme, you have the right to reclaim your money at any time. 
If we transfer the balance of your account to RFL, you'll have exactly the same right to payment of your moneys. However, we'll remain responsible for handling all repayment claims on behalf of RFL. You should continue to contact us in the usual way if you have any queries or complaints about your account or balance.
Both HSBC and RFL ar\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/inactive-accounts/
########Top of main content 
Understanding your statement 
Not every bank uses the same abbreviations or terms, so sometimes you may be unsure about exactly what’s on your statement. 
If there’s something that’s confusing on your current account statement, this guide may be able to help.
The basics 
Your HSBC bank statement gives details of everything that’s been paid out and paid in over a given period of time.
At the top of the page, it shows your name and address, the period of time covered by the statement and your account name.
In the top right corner, you’ll see the account the statement is for and an account summary showing:
International Bank Account Number (IBAN) - The IBAN is a series of alphanumeric characters that helps to identify accounts held anywhere in the world
Bank Identifier Code (BIC) - Your BIC is the code that helps banks outside the UK identify where to send money
Opening balance - This is how much money you had in your account at the start of the statement period
Payments in - The total amount paid in over the statement period – this might include your salary or benefits
Payments out - The total amount you’ve paid out over the statement period – this could include things like shopping, money withdrawn at cash machines and regular Direct Debits or standing orders
Closing balance - This is how much money you had in your account at the end of the statement period 
Overdraft limit - This is the agreed maximum amount you’re able to go overdrawn on this account
Under a summary, the statement gives the following important details:
Sort code - A 6-digit number which identifies the branch where your account is held
Account number - This 8-digit number is the unique number for your account which anyone paying money to you will need to know
Sheet number - Your statement might run over more than one page – all the sheets are numbered so you can keep them in the right order
Abbreviations 
There might be some abbreviations on your statement that you haven’t seen before. Here are some of the most common ones:
ATM - Automated Teller Machine, usually known as a cash machine in the UK
BACS - Previously known as Bankers' Automated Clearing Services, this is the system which businesses use to pay wages directly into an employee’s account
CHQ - Cheque
CR - Credit
DD - Direct Debit
DR - Debit
SO - Standing order
TRF - Transfer
Does something look wrong? 
If there’s a payment on your statement you don't recognise, there may be a reason why. 
For example, some shops trade under a different name to the one you know them by. Or if you've been abroad, the exchange rate might mean an amount looks different to what you thought you'd paid.
There may be an ongoing regular payment for something you set up some time ago and has slipped your mind. Also, if you've agreed to a free trial but not cancelled it, it might be that you've now started paying for that service.
If there’s something you don’t recognise and it doesn’t fit any of the above, you can query a transaction on your statement or report a problem.
You can also use our mobile app if you want to dispute the transaction. Log on to the app, go to 'Support' and select 'Query a transaction'.
If there is a HSBC charge on your account you can find more information below:
Overdrafts - Overdraft Calculator | Interest Rates - HSBC UK
Overseas transactions- Using Debit Card Abroad | Spending Money Abroad - HSBC UK
Sending or receiving money outside the UK International Money Transfer | Bank Transfers - HSBC UK
For more information on charges related to your account see your terms and conditions.
Back to top 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Banking terms you need to know 
Financial fitness 
Understanding your spending\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/understanding-your-statement/
########Top of main content 
Electronic signatures 
When you’re applying for one of our products or carrying out other activity on your account, we might send you an email asking you for an electronic signature.
If you’ve not received one of these before, you might be suspicious.
It’s a good idea to be on your guard against possible phishing scams - but HSBC does send out genuine messages asking you to sign documents using adobesign@adobesign.com.
Here’s what to look out for.
What will the email look like? 
The sender of the email will appear in your inbox something like this:
HSBC UK <adobesign@adobesign.com>
Some emails might show a specific department rather than just HSBC UK, like this:
HSBC UK Credit Cards <adobesign@adobesign.com>
This is a secure message powered by Adobe Sign and issued by HSBC UK. The email template might vary slightly, but you can expect a genuine message to look like this:
The document name may vary depending on the form being sent out. 
What is an electronic signature? 
An electronic signature, or e-signature, is a legal way to gain consent or approval on electronic forms or documents where it’s impractical to get a physical signature. Under no circumstances will we ask for security details such as your PIN, online banking codes or password.
What is Adobe Sign? 
Adobe Sign is a tool used by HSBC UK. It allows us to securely send documents and collect your signature in a convenient, quick way rather than conventional paper-based methods.
How do I use Adobe Sign? 
Simply open the link provided in the email and follow instructions. This can be done by using a mobile phone, tablet or computer. 
Useful information 
If you're expecting an email from us, remember to check your junk folder in case it's landed there.
The link on the form will redirect you to the document. We’ll send a one-time password to your phone to allow you to access the document.
We use the contact details that we hold for you on our system. Please make sure both your email address and mobile number are up-to-date so you can view the form.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/electronic-signatures/
########Top of main content 
How to get out of your overdraft 
Arranged overdrafts can help cover unexpected expenses, but using one for your day-to-day costs can create problems. 
If you’re regularly using your overdraft and don’t have any savings available, here are some actions you may want to consider.
1. Reduce your expenses 
Planning a budget lets you see where you’re spending money and if there’s anywhere you could cut back. 
Split your budget into ‘needs’ and ‘wants’. Needs are essentials, like rent and groceries. Wants might include eating out and holidays. If possible, start by reducing your wants wherever you can. 
Look at your regular payments, such as your Direct Debits, to check they’re correct. There may be services or subscriptions you’re paying for that you no longer use or could pay less for.
Use our budget planner to help.
2. Set yourself a repayment plan 
Any money you can free up can help reduce how much you rely on your overdraft.
Unlike personal loans and credit cards, overdrafts don't have a set repayment date. This can make it tricky to prioritise paying it off. But it’s important to get into the habit of chipping away at the amount you owe.
Try setting yourself a target of how much you'd like to pay off each month and then treat it like any other bill. Factor it into your budget so the money is accounted for, and you’re not tempted to spend it on other things.
3. Review your existing borrowing 
If you have other debts you’re repaying alongside your overdraft, it’s important to look at how much interest you’re paying. 
As most overdrafts have a higher interest rate than other borrowing options, it can be more expensive to have an overdrawn balance than other lending options for a long period of time.
4. Look at other borrowing options 
A personal loan may give you a lower rate of interest than an overdraft. If you don’t think you’ll be able to repay your overdraft in the short term, you may want to consider taking out a personal loan to repay it. You’ll then be able to pay the loan off in a more structured way – with set repayment amounts and dates. 
If you’re considering a personal loan, check the APR to help you understand how much interest you'll have to pay. You can then compare it with how much you’re being charged on your overdraft. It's important to remember loans are subject to status.
Explore: Loans explained: everything you need to know
Another option is a money transfer credit card with a 0% interest period. This type of credit card lets you transfer money into your bank account (typically for a fee), which you could use to cover your overdraft.
You’ll then be able to repay the money you owe without incurring overdraft interest.
Make sure you can afford at least the minimum repayments before applying for a credit card. It’s also essential to check the APR, as you’ll be charged interest if you still owe money once the 0% interest period ends. It's important to remember credit cards are subject to status.
5. Reduce your overdraft limit 
To help resist temptation, you may want to reduce your overdraft limit as you clear it to avoid going back into debt. 
You can reduce your overdraft via online and mobile banking.
6. Speak to someone 
If you feel like your overdraft is unmanageable, you may want to speak to a trusted family member or friend. They may be able to help reduce any stress you have and help you find the support you need.
Professional advice is also available.
If you’re an HSBC customer, visit our money worries page to see how we can help.
Citizens Advice Citizens Advice This link will open in a new window, National Debtline National Debtline This link will open in a new window or StepChange Debt Charity StepChange Debt Charity This link will open in a new window can also provide professional assistance.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
See tips on how to stop spending more than you earn 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is debt consolidation? 
Overdrafts explained 
How to repay debts\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/overdrafts/how-to-get-out-of-your-overdraft/
########Top of main content 
Biometrics 
A simple and secure way to log on to our mobile banking app 
Table of contents 
Android 
Apple 
Biometrics is a new technology which uses human features to make logging on more secure. Instead of needing to remember a password, you can use fingerprint or face recognition.
Use your biometrics to log on to the mobile banking app 
Your biometrics is an excellent security device; you've always got it with you and no two are exactly the same. With the right kind of mobile device, you can use your fingerprint or face recognition to log on faster to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app or generate a security code on your Digital Secure Key.
Android 
To use Android Fingerprint you'll need:
the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app
to have chosen a Digital Secure Key
to have a compatible phone and operating system
Get the app Get the app This link will open in a new window 
How to enable Android Fingerprint in our app 
Make sure Android Fingerprint is already set up on your phone. You'll also need to have a passcode or screen lock.
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, go to your profile, then select 'Security'.
Go to 'Manage Security' and then 'Set up Biometrics'.
Follow what it says on the screen to enable Android Fingerprint.
Compatible phones 
To enable Android Fingerprint, your phone must be running Android 8 or above and have fingerprint log on functionality.
These phones also support Android Fingerprint 
Samsung Galaxy C9 Pro1
Samsung J61
Samsung A8 star1
Samsung A6 plus1
HTC U12+2
LG G63
LG G6+3
LG V20+3
LG V30+3
LG Q Stylus+3
Google Pixel4
Google Pixel 24
Google Pixel 2 XL4
Sony Xperia XZ25
Sony Xperia X72 Premium5
Xperia XZ35
Apple 
To use Touch ID you'll need: 
an Apple iPhone 5s, 6 or above, or an Apple iPad 5th generation or above6
the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app
To use Face ID you'll need: 
an Apple iPhone X or above or an Apple iPad 5th generation or above6
the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app
Get the app Get the app This link will open in a new window 
How to enable Touch ID in our app 
In your device settings, make sure you've registered your fingerprints in the 'Touch ID & Passcode' section.
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, select 'Profile' icon in top right hand corner of screen, then 'Security', 'Manage Security' and select 'Set up Touch ID'.
Go to 'Manage Security' and then 'Set up Touch ID'.
Follow what it says on the screen to enable Touch ID.
How to enable Face ID in our app 
In your device settings, make sure you've registered your fingerprint in the 'Face ID & Passcode' section.
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, go to your profile, then select 'Security'.
Go to 'Manage Security' and then 'Set up Face ID'.
Follow what it says on the screen to enable Face ID.
Important security information 
When you enable biometrics, any fingerprint or face stored on your device, now or in the future, can be used to log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You should only enable biometrics if you're the only person who has fingerprints or faces registered on your device.
More information about keeping your device and security details safe and secure are available in the security section of the Terms & Conditions for the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You can find these in the app menu.
Frequently Asked Questions 
What is biometrics and how do I enable it on the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app? 
Biometrics is an easy alternative to entering your Digital Security Key PIN on an compatible mobile device. Just use your unique biometric credentials, such as fingerprint or face recognition.
You can enable biometrics (on Android devices) or Touch ID and Face ID (on iOS devices) when you complete the registration for your Digital Security Key.
You can also do it later with your Digital Security Key PIN by going to 'Profile', 'Security' and then select 'Manage security'.
If my fingerprint or face is not recognised, can I still log on to my account? 
Yes. You can still log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app using your Digital Secure Key PIN.
Can I use biometrics to log on if I have other people's fingerprints or faces stored on my device? 
When you enable biometrics, any fingerprint or face stored on your device - now or in the future - can be used to log on to the mobile banking app. You should only enable biometrics if you are the only person who has fingerprints or faces registered on your device.
How can I disable biometrics? 
There are 2 ways to disable biometrics:
go to 'Profile', 'Security' and then select 'Manage security' after logging on to the mobile banking app
in your device settings, delete all registered biometrics or delete the device passcode
Why can’t I log onto the mobile banking app with my biometrics anymore? 
If you change the biometrics stored on your device, or reset your Digital Security Key PIN, you'll need to set up your biometrics again when you next log on to the mobile banking app.
Will my fingerprint be stored in the app or elsewhere within HSBC? 
No. We won't store your fingerprint in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app or elsewhere within HSBC.
Samsung and all device names listed are trademarks of Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.
The HTC logo, HTC BoomSound, HTC Ultrapixel and HTC Sense are trademarks of HTC Corporation. Android is a trademark of Google LLC.
The LG logo and LG are trademarks of LG Corp.
Google and Google Pixels are trademarks of Google LLC.
Xperia and the XPERIA logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Sony Mobile Communications Inc.
Apple iPhone, iPad, Touch ID and Face ID are trademarks of Apple Inc.
More ways to bank
Online banking
Telephone banking
Branch banking
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/biometrics/
########Top of main content 
Compare credit cards 
Compare interest rates, benefits and rewards. Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions. 
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove card Remove card Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Balance Transfer Credit Card
Remove card Remove card Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Purchase Plus Credit Card
Remove card Remove card Premier Credit Card 
Premier Credit Card
Remove card Remove card Rewards Credit Card 
Rewards Credit Card
At a glance 
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Enjoy up to 24 months interest-free for balance transfers (3.49% fee, min £5).
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Discover the all-rounder that has up to 18 months of interest-free purchases and up to 16 months of interest-free balance transfers (3.49% fee, minimum £5).
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Get travel benefits, rewards and HSBC Premier Privileges - just for HSBC Premier customers
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Earn reward points on eligible purchases you make
Balance transfer 
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers will revert to the standard variable rate.1 1 
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
0% for up to 24 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 3.49% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5.
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
0% for up to 16 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 3.49% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5.
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
0% for 18 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 2.99% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
0% for 6 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 2.99% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5
Purchases introductory rate 
At the end of any promotional period, purchases will revert to the standard variable rate. 
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
0% on purchases for 3 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
0% on purchases for up to 18 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
0% on purchases for 9 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
0% on purchases for 6 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Representative example 
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Representative APR: 24.9% APR (variable)
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Representative APR: 24.9% APR (variable)
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Representative APR: 23.9% APR (variable)
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Representative APR: 23.9% APR (variable)
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Can you apply? 
Quick check 
You can check the full eligibility criteria later 
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
For new and existing HSBC customers
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
For new and existing HSBC customers
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
For HSBC Premier customers
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
For existing HSBC customers
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
No specific annual income / pension requirements
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Must be a UK resident
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Must be a UK resident
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Must be a permanent UK resident or hold a valid UK visa
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Must be a UK resident
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Must not hold an HSBC Basic Bank Account
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Must not hold an HSBC Basic Bank Account
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Have an HSBC Premier Account
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Have an HSBC Advance Account OR HSBC Bank or Premier Account with HSBC UK into which you've paid a total of £1,750 a month over the last 6 months, not including money transferred from joint or sole personal accounts held with HSBC UK
Benefits 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Balance Transfe\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/compare.balance-transfer-credit-card.purchase-plus-credit-card.premier-credit-card.rewards-credit-card/
########Top of main content 
Open Banking 
Stay in control of all of your accounts 
What is Open Banking? 
Open Banking is a way of seeing all your accounts together in one place, wherever you bank.
It allows you to share information safely with third party apps and websites offering services such as:
sharing your account information
making payments
setting up automated Variable Recurring Payments (Sweeping payments)
budgeting tools
helping you to manage your money
comparing prices to help you shop around
You can check which third parties are regulated or authorised to provide Open Banking services in the UK by searching the Open Banking websiteOpen Banking website This link will open in a new window and the FCA RegisterFCA Register This link will open in a new window.
Sharing your information 
By sharing your information securely with a regulated app or website, you can do things like connect your accounts and view all your balances and transactions in a single place. Plus, you can use product comparison sites to check if there’s a more suitable account for your lifestyle.
Making payments 
With Open Banking, you can send money between your accounts or pay others, including friends and family, using these apps or websites in just a few steps.
For both UK and international payments, you can:
make an immediate payment
set up a future-dated payment
set up a standing order or recurring payment
To use Open Banking, you’ll be asked for your consent by the app or website before being redirected to HSBC for authentication.
The third party can ask you for the sort code and account number of where the payment will come from, or you can select those details after the authentication process and confirm the payment to be made. You’ll then be returned to the app or website.
For all immediate payments, you can’t recall or amend them once they’ve been made.
If you‘re sharing your online banking details with a third party, they’ll be able to make payments from your account in the same way, as if you were logged on to online banking directly.
How sweeping payments work 
You can set up instructions with a third party to automatically move funds (sweep) between your own accounts. 
You will set the parameters for the sweeping payments via the third party app / website eg frequency of payments (daily/weekly/monthly) and payment limits (maximum amount transferred per month / maximum amount transferred per sweep). We’ll ask you to complete security once during set-up. Once agreed, there is nothing further for you to do.

The third party will use these parameters to check your account and automatically move funds without the need for you to authenticate each payment/sweep. You can cancel the instructions at any time. 
Please note: The third party may need access to some of your account information to enable them to determine whether a sweep can be made.
How card-based payment instruments work 
A third party may issue you with a card that you can link to your payment accounts. 
You can make payments with that card and the third party will ask us for confirmation that you have the funds in your account.
We’ll only respond with a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ answer. If the third party wants to access the funds in your accounts, they’ll need to make separate arrangements with you.
If you experience a problem with one of these cards, get in touch directly with the third party which issued the card.
How does Open Banking work? 
Using Open Banking 
Open Banking works by enabling financial institutions to share account information and make payments through APIs (application programming interfaces). This means you can safely allow access to your data and make payments without needing to share your log on details.
Apps and websites will need your consent to access your HSBC accounts. It’s important you understand the services they’re providing and how they’ll use your data.
To access your account for information sharing, to make a payment or set up sweeping payments they’ll ask you for your consent and you’ll be securely redirected to HSBC's authentication process. This will be similar to the way you log on to online banking. If you’re using the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, you’ll be able to use face or fingerprint recognition to authenticate it, where available.
If you’re having trouble authenticating, make sure you follow the on-screen instructions on how to generate the security code.
Once authenticated, you can select the accounts you want to share or make a payment from. The app or website will ask you for your consent for them to access your account data either as a one-off, or for a period of time, such as 2 years. They will ask for your consent every 90 days to carry on accessing your data.
Sharing your Online Banking details with authorised third parties 
This is another way for third parties to access your accounts or make payments. Unlike with Open Banking, you may need to share your log on details with the service provider to allow them to access your accounts.
They’ll need to identify themselves to us and we’ll check that they are certified to provide third party information or payment services. They may then access your accounts by logging on using your online banking security credentials. They’ll need to request this information from you each time, which they’ll share with us.
They’re only legally permitted to access screens and information for accounts that you’ve given consent to. They must comply with data protection laws, payments law and must be registered or authorised with the Financial Conduct AuthorityFinancial Conduct Authority This link will open in a new window (FCA).
If you’re concerned about the data you’ve shared and feel it may have been used incorrectly, or if you’re concerned about any payments made through third parties, get in touch with them as soon as possible.
Need more help? 
You can find out more about how Open Banking worksOpen Banking works This link will open in a new window from the body set up to impl\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/open-banking/
########Top of main content 
Compare credit cards 
Compare interest rates, benefits and rewards. Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions. 
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove card Remove card Purchase Plus Credit Card 
Purchase Plus Credit Card
Remove card Remove card Rewards Credit Card 
Rewards Credit Card
Remove card Remove card Premier Credit Card 
Premier Credit Card
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
At a glance 
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Discover the all-rounder that has up to 18 months of interest-free purchases and up to 16 months of interest-free balance transfers (3.49% fee, minimum £5).
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Earn reward points on eligible purchases you make
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Get travel benefits, rewards and HSBC Premier Privileges - just for HSBC Premier customers
Balance transfer 
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers will revert to the standard variable rate.1 1 
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
0% for up to 16 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 3.49% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5.
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
0% for 6 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 2.99% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
0% for 18 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 2.99% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5
Purchases introductory rate 
At the end of any promotional period, purchases will revert to the standard variable rate. 
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
0% on purchases for up to 18 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
0% on purchases for 6 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
0% on purchases for 9 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Representative example 
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Representative APR: 24.9% APR (variable)
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Representative APR: 23.9% APR (variable)
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Representative APR: 23.9% APR (variable)
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Can you apply? 
Quick check 
You can check the full eligibility criteria later 
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
For new and existing HSBC customers
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
For existing HSBC customers
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
For HSBC Premier customers
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
No specific annual income / pension requirements
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Must be a UK resident
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Must be a UK resident
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Must be a permanent UK resident or hold a valid UK visa
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Must not hold an HSBC Basic Bank Account
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Have an HSBC Advance Account OR HSBC Bank or Premier Account with HSBC UK into which you've paid a total of £1,750 a month over the last 6 months, not including money transferred from joint or sole personal accounts held with HSBC UK
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Have an HSBC Premier Account
Benefits 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Not applicable
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Get 2,500 welcome points worth £25 when you make your first transaction on your card
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Get 10% off on bookings at more than 180,000 Agoda hotels
Enjoy a 10% discount on selected Expedia hotels
Enjoy 12 months of Expedia+ Gold Membership
Access more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide for just £24 per person, per visit with Priority Pass.
Get up to 2 years extended warranty from Domestic & General Insurance plc on selected household appliances
Rewards 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Purchase Plus Credit CardPurchase Plus Credit Card 
Not applicable
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Use reward points for everyday purchases wherever your card is accepted, in-store or online
Earn up to 10 reward points for every £1 you spend at selected stores, including Morrisons, White Stuff and Gousto
Earn 1 reward point for every £5 you spend
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Exchange your reward points for a selection of Laithwaites quality wines
Redeem your reward points for e-vouchers at retailers such as M&S and Amazon
Convert your reward points into airline miles with a wide range of airlines such as British Airways, Etihad, Asia Miles and Singapore Airlines
Earn 1 reward point for every £1 of eligible spend2\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/compare.purchase-plus-credit-card.rewards-credit-card.premier-credit-card./
########Top of main content 
Compare credit cards 
Compare interest rates, benefits and rewards. Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions. 
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove card Remove card Classic Credit Card 
Classic Credit Card
Remove card Remove card Student Credit Card 
Student Credit Card
Remove card Remove card Balance Transfer Credit Card 
Balance Transfer Credit Card
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
At a glance 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Start building your credit rating
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Enjoy a purpose-built card for existing HSBC Student Bank account holders
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Enjoy up to 24 months interest-free for balance transfers (3.49% fee, min £5).
Balance transfer 
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers will revert to the standard variable rate.1 1 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Not applicable
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Not applicable
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
0% for up to 24 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 3.49% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5.
Purchases introductory rate 
At the end of any promotional period, purchases will revert to the standard variable rate. 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Not applicable
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Not applicable
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
0% on purchases for 3 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Representative example 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Representative APR: 29.9% APR (variable)
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Representative APR: 18.9% APR (variable)
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Representative APR: 24.9% APR (variable)
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 29.9% p.a. (variable)
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 24.9% p.a. (variable)
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,000
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £500
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Can you apply? 
Quick check 
You can check the full eligibility criteria later 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
For existing HSBC customers
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
For existing HSBC customers
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
For new and existing HSBC customers
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
No specific annual income / pension requirements
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Must be a UK resident
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Must have been a UK resident for at least 3 years
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Must be a UK resident
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Must not hold an HSBC Basic Bank Account
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Have an HSBC Student Bank Account
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Must not hold an HSBC Basic Bank Account
Benefits 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Not applicable
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Not applicable
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Not applicable
Rewards 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card 
Not applicable
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card 
Not applicable
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card 
Not applicable
Important documents 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card Credit Card Terms & Conditions This link will open in a new window 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (239.8 kB, PDF) 
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card Credit Card Terms & Conditions This link will open in a new window 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (1.3 MB, PDF) 
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card Credit Card Terms & Conditions This link will open in a new window 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (239.8 kB, PDF) 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card Summary box This link will open in a new window 
Summary box (70.8 kB, PDF) 
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card Summary box This link will open in a new window 
Summary box (53.3 kB, PDF) 
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card Summary box This link will open in a new window 
Summary box (92.1 kB, PDF) 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card Standards of lending practice This link will open in a new window 
Standards of lending practice (42.5 kB, PDF) 
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card Standards of lending practice This link will open in a new window 
Standards of lending practice (42.5 kB, PDF) 
Balance Transfer Credit CardBalance Transfer Credit Card Standards of lending practice This link will open in a new window 
Standards of lending practice (42.5 kB, PDF) 
Classic Credit CardClassic Credit Card Privacy notice This link will open in a new window 
Privacy notice (498 kB, PDF) 
Student Credit CardStudent Credit Card Privacy notice This link will open in a new window 
Privacy notice (498 kB, PDF) 
Balance Transfer Credi\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/compare.classic-credit-card.student-credit-card.balance-transfer-credit-card/
########Top of main content 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Designed for the dedicated traveller - exclusive to existing HSBC Premier (including retained Jade benefits) and Private Banking Account customers 
Our most sophisticated card offers double reward points and enhanced travel benefits. Representative 59.3% APR (variable).
Credit is subject to status, affordability and terms and conditions. Please read the important documents before applying.
	
Representative example
Purchase rate18.9% p.a. (variable)
Representative59.3% APR (variable)
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
With an annual fee of
£195
Start application 
Key benefits 
Welcome reward points 
Receive 40,000 reward points when you spend11 view footnote 1 £2,000 on your card in the first 90 days of card membership.
Anniversary reward points 
Spend £12,000 or more on your card within your first 12 months of membership to receive a further 40,000 reward points at the anniversary22 view footnote 2 of card membership.
Earn rewards on purchases 
For every £1 of eligible spend11 view footnote 1 you’ll earn 2 reward points if it’s in sterling33 view footnote 3, or 4 reward points if it’s in another currency44 view footnote 4 (fees apply to non-sterling transactions).
Your Premier World Elite Mastercard also comes with 
Airport lounge access 
Get access to more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide with Priority PassPriority Pass This link will open in a new window. Just show your Premier World Elite Mastercard at the lounge door. 
Mastercard Priceless 
Access unforgettable experiences and everyday value in the cities where you live and travel with Mastercard PricelessMastercard Priceless This link will open in a new window. 
Use your credit card abroad 
You can use your HSBC credit card in all countries and regions supported by the Visa and Mastercard networks. Fees apply, and non-HSBC cash machines may also charge a fee. 
Additional cardholders 
Get additional cards for up to 3 members of your family, or friends. Fees apply (refunded for Private Banking Account customers). 
Additional cardholder information Additional cardholder information Opens in overlay 
Enjoy 24/7 worldwide assistance 
Help is at hand if your card is lost or stolen. Call our dedicated support team about getting an emergency cash advance. 
Purchase protection 
Section 75 protects credit card purchases of £100 to £30,000 if the supplier breaches a contract, or misrepresents goods. 
No-fuss card management 
Use online banking or the HSBC Mobile Banking app to check your balance, make payments, freeze your card, and stay in control. 
Go digital 
All HSBC credit cards are contactless and can be used with a digital wallet. For immediate access to spending, you can add your card to Apple Pay or Google Pay directly from the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app before your new card arrives. 
Things to know 
Who can apply? 
You can apply for a Premier World Elite Mastercard if you:
are over 18
are a UK resident
hold an HSBC Premier Account
Important documents 
Summary Box (PDF, 144KB) Summary Box (PDF, 144KB) Download 
Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Download 
Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Standards of Lending Practice (PDF, 1.12MB) Download 
Premier World Elite Mastercard Terms & Conditions (PDF, 234KB) Premier World Elite Mastercard Terms & Conditions (PDF, 234KB) Download 
Reward Programme Rules (PDF, 261KB) Reward Programme Rules (PDF, 261KB) Download 
Ready to apply for a Premier World Elite Mastercard? 
Existing customers 
On your mobile device? If you've downloaded our app and have an HSBC Premier account, you can apply now by selecting 'Apply in app'.
Apply in app Apply in app for a credit card 
If you're on a desktop, scan the QR code with your mobile device.
More ways to apply 
Apply in browser 
If you have an HSBC Premier account and you're registered for online banking, you can start your application right away. You'll be able to see your pre-filled application form, submit it, and get an instant decision.
Log on and apply Log on and apply This link will open in a new window 
Register for online banking 
Apply in branch 
t’s usually easiest to apply through the app or online banking, but if you need support you can visit one of our branches and we’ll help you with your application.
Please bring your mobile phone with you (or a similar device, like a tablet) if you have one.
Find your nearest branch 
New to the UK? 
We may be able to access your international credit history in selected countries to help you apply for an HSBC UK credit card.
Find out about credit cards for international customers 
Frequently asked questions 
What is a World Elite Mastercard? 
The Premier World Elite Mastercard is our most sophisticated card, offering double reward points and enhanced travel benefits.
How do reward points work on a World Elite Mastercard? 
You can redeem these reward points for retail e-vouchers, airline miles and fine wines. You'll also earn welcome and anniversary points with the Premier World Elite Mastercard.
Does a World Elite Mastercard have airport lounge access? 
The HSBC Premier World Elite Mastercard allows you unlimited access to more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide with membership of the Priority Pass programme.
You might also be interested in 
Not the right card for you?
Discover our range of credit cards and find the one that matches your needs.
Reward points
Find out how your rewards credit card can pay you back.
Credit card rewards explained
Get to know what a reward credit card can offer you, and how much it could cost you to use one.
How to avoid credit card charges
Get to know the different types of credit card charges and how you can reduce the amount you pay.
Standards of Lending Practice 
HSBC adheres to the standards of lending practice guidelines.
Additional information 
1. Eligible spend excludes cash advances, fees, balance transfers, cheques, refunds, interest or any other charges.
2. To get these ann\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/premier-world-elite/
########Top of main content 
Compare credit cards 
Compare interest rates, benefits and rewards. Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions. 
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove card Remove card Rewards Credit Card 
Rewards Credit Card
Remove card Remove card Premier Credit Card 
Premier Credit Card
Remove card Remove card Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Premier World Elite Mastercard
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
At a glance 
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Earn reward points on eligible purchases you make
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Get travel benefits, rewards and HSBC Premier Privileges - just for HSBC Premier customers
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Designed for the dedicated traveller - exclusive to existing HSBC Premier and Private Banking Account customers
Balance transfer 
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers will revert to the standard variable rate.1 1 
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
0% for 6 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 2.99% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
0% for 18 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 2.99% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Not applicable
Purchases introductory rate 
At the end of any promotional period, purchases will revert to the standard variable rate. 
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
0% on purchases for 6 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
0% on purchases for 9 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Not applicable
Representative example 
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Representative APR: 23.9% APR (variable)
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Representative APR: 23.9% APR (variable)
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Representative APR: 59.3% APR (variable)
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Annual fee: £195
Can you apply? 
Quick check 
You can check the full eligibility criteria later 
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
For existing HSBC customers
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
For HSBC Premier customers
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
For HSBC Premier and Private Banking Account customers
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £6,800 or more
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
No specific annual income / pension requirements
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
No specific annual income / pension requirements
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Must be a UK resident
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Must be a permanent UK resident or hold a valid UK visa
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Must be a permanent UK resident or hold a valid UK visa
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Must be over 18
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Have an HSBC Advance Account OR HSBC Bank or Premier Account with HSBC UK into which you've paid a total of £1,750 a month over the last 6 months, not including money transferred from joint or sole personal accounts held with HSBC UK
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Have an HSBC Premier Account
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Have an HSBC Premier Account
Benefits 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Get 2,500 welcome points worth £25 when you make your first transaction on your card
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Get 10% off on bookings at more than 180,000 Agoda hotels
Enjoy a 10% discount on selected Expedia hotels
Enjoy 12 months of Expedia+ Gold Membership
Access more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide for just £24 per person, per visit with Priority Pass.
Get up to 2 years extended warranty from Domestic & General Insurance plc on selected household appliances
Premier World Elite MastercardPremier World Elite Mastercard 
Get 40,000 reward points 2 2 when you spend £12,000 or more on your card in the first year
Get 40,000 reward points 2 2 when you spend £2,000 on your card in the first 3 months
Get 10% off on bookings at more than 180,000 Agoda hotels
Enjoy a 10% discount on selected Expedia hotels
Enjoy 12 months of Expedia+ Gold Membership
Get access to more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide with Priority Pass.
Rewards 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Rewards Credit CardRewards Credit Card 
Use reward points for everyday purchases wherever your card is accepted, in-store or online
Earn up to 10 reward points for every £1 you spend at selected stores, including Morrisons, White Stuff and Gousto
Earn 1 reward point for every £5 you spend
Premier Credit CardPremier Credit Card 
Exchange your reward points for a selection of Laithwaites quality wines
Redeem your reward points for e-vouchers at retailers suc\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/compare.rewards-credit-card.premier-credit-card.premier-world-elite-mastercard/
########Top of main content 
How to get a credit card 
If you’re wanting to make a large purchase and spread the cost, a credit card may be useful. 
It can also help to know you have extra funds available if you need them.
If you’re looking to apply for a credit card, use our guide below to help.
1. Find the right credit card 
Before applying for a credit card, take some time to consider which one may be right for your needs. Different credit cards can be useful for different things.
For example, a balance transfer credit card with an interest-free period may be useful if you’re looking to pay down existing credit card debt. Or, a 0% interest on purchases credit card may come in handy if you’re wanting to make a bigger purchase and spread the cost over a longer period without paying interest. 
When comparing credit cards, make sure to take into account the APR as well as any other fees and charges. Keep in mind, the APR advertised may not be the rate you’re offered. This can be due to a number of reasons, such as your credit score. 
If you’re shopping around to find the right credit card, make sure to only submit an application when you’ve found the right one. Submitting lots of applications for finance in a short amount of time may affect your credit score. Comparison sites can be useful as they perform soft credit checks and may show what credit cards you’re likely to be accepted for without negatively impacting your credit score. 
Explore: Hard vs soft credit checks: What's the difference?
2. Check your credit score 
When lenders are considering your application, they’ll check your credit score. This helps them determine how reliable you are at repaying anything you borrow. 
If you’re applying for a credit card, it can be useful to check your credit report first. You’ll be able to look for any mistakes and make sure all the information the credit reference agencies have is accurate. 
There may be steps you can take to improve your credit score if it isn’t quite where you want it to be. 
3. Check your eligibility 
Some credit cards may have eligibility requirements you need to meet in order to be able to apply. For example, you may need to earn over a certain amount per year, or be over a certain age. 
4. Fill in the application 
You’ll need to fill in an application to apply for a credit card. You may be able to do this online, over the phone or in branch.
Make sure to be as honest as possible with your application and review it before submitting to make sure there are no mistakes. A declined credit card application may affect your credit score, so it’s important to check it thoroughly.
Keep in mind, you should always check the terms and conditions of the credit card you’re applying for before you start applying. 
5. Review your offer 
If your application for a credit card is successful, make sure to review the offer from the lender. Check the:
APR 
fees 
payment due dates 
percentage you’ll need to repay to make the minimum monthly repayment (although you should always try to repay in full to avoid being charged interest) 
If your application is declined, it can be useful to check your credit report to see if there are any reasons why this may have happened. 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
How do credit cards work? 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is an interest-free period? 
Credit card protection 
5 common credit card myths\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/how-to-get-a-credit-card/
########Top of main content 
What is home equity? 
Home equity is the value of your property, less the amount you owe on your mortgage. 
It can go up over time, as you pay off your mortgage, and if your property rises in value. 
Knowing how much equity you have in your home can be useful. If you need to, you may be able to borrow against it, in the form of a home loan or equity release.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
How to calculate your home equity 
To calculate the amount of equity you have in your home: 
Add the amount you owe on your mortgage together with any secured loans. 
Then subtract that amount from the current value of your property. 
Example: 
Property value: £400,000
Outstanding mortgage balance: £200,000
Outstanding secured loan balance: £10,000
So: £400,000 minus £210,000 (£200,000 + £10,000) = £190,000
£190,000 is the equity you have in your property.
To find out how much your property is worth, you can:
ask local estate agents to provide a valuation of your property (these are often free) 
look at what similar properties in your area have sold for 
What is negative equity? 
Negative equity is when the total amount you owe on a mortgage and/or other loans secured on your home is higher than the value of the property. For example, if property prices fall – you could owe more than your home is worth. This can make it difficult if you decide to sell, or remortgage.
How can you use home equity? 
You can use your home equity to help you climb the property ladder to your next home, or free up money by downsizing – if the property you’re buying is cheaper than the one you’re selling.
Other options include:
taking out a home loan 
unlocking cash through equity release 
What is a home loan and how does it work? 
A home loan is a type of secured loan. It enables you to borrow money against the equity in your home. You may decide to do this to fund home improvements, for example. 
A home loan could be an additional element to your existing mortgage (if you have one) or be your only form of secured borrowing. 
If you have an existing mortgage, and take out a home loan, your monthly payments may increase. Alternatively, you may be able to extend the length of your mortgage term, to try and make your monthly payments more manageable. However, extending your mortgage term could mean you pay more interest overall, even if the new interest rate is lower. 
Keep in mind – with any form of borrowing, you need to be able to afford the repayments. The value of your property can also fall, which can leave you in negative equity. 
What is equity release and how does it work? 
If you’re over the age of 55, you may be able to release equity (cash) tied up in your home. This money can be released as a lump sum and/or smaller, regular payments. You may decide to do this to supplement your income in retirement, for example. 
The money you borrow against your home is then paid back to the equity release provider when you die, or go into long-term care, using the proceeds from the sale of your home. 
Please note – HSBC doesn’t provide equity release products. 
Releasing equity requires careful thought. As the sale of your home is used to pay back the amount borrowed – this reduces the value of your estate, and how much you leave your loved ones when you die. It can also affect any benefits you’re entitled to, now or in the future. 
Equity release arrangements can be complex. You need to make sure you completely understand all the terms and conditions before you enter into one, and seek advice from a specialist in this area. 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your property may be repossessed if you don’t keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Borrowing more on your mortgage 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
The pros and cons of home renovations 
Why should you improve your home’s EPC rating? 
Planning for retirement\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/what-is-home-equity/
########Top of main content 
Borrow more or extend your term 
Manage your mortgage the way you want to 
In line with the government's Mortgage Charter, HSBC can now offer more options to help mortgage customers through the cost of living crisis.
Close 
Make changes to your mortgage that suit you 
Looking to make some home improvements? Borrowing more against your property, sometimes called a secured loan, can help to make your plans a reality. Or, you could extend your mortgage term, which could make your monthly payments less. Extending the term of your mortgage means that it will take longer to pay your mortgage back and could increase the total amount to be repaid.
You could borrow from £10,000 
Pay the money back over 5 years or more 
Looking to borrow less than £10,000? We've got loans and other ways to borrow that could suit you.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Borrow more or extend your term online 
You can apply to borrow more money on your mortgage, or extend your term online if:
You have held your mortgage with us for at least 6 months, or
You have paid off your mortgage and remain the property owner
You don’t have a temporary interest-only arrangement on your mortgage under the Mortgage Charter
Plus, you'll need to have consent from all mortgage holders.
If you have opted to make temporary interest-only payments on your mortgage under the Mortgage Charter, you'll need to speak with us to discuss borrowing more.
The amount you choose to borrow must be within our maximum loan-to-value (LTV) for the current value of your property.
Log on to make changes Log on to make changes This link will open in a new window 
What's your loan-to-value? 
Calculate how much you could borrow 
Borrow more or extend your term by phone 
If you don't meet the above criteria - or you'd like to speak to our expert mortgage team to borrow more or extend your term - give us a call on:
0800 169 6333
Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Frequently asked questions
What's the difference between a secured and unsecured loan? 
A secured loan is a home loan, or mortgage. That means you have borrowed or 'secured' money against your property. It also means the lender could repossess your home if you fail to keep up with repayments.
An unsecured loan is typically a personal loan, which means it isn't secured against an asset, such as a property. But, any late or missed repayments can negatively impact your credit score and your ability to borrow money in the future.
Watch our video to learn more 
What's a loan-to-value (LTV)? 
Your loan-to-value is the percentage of the property price you want to borrow. For example, a £100,000 property with an £80,000 mortgage would be an 80% LTV. The maximum LTV we'll lend you depends on your individual situation, the property, the loan you choose and the amount you borrow.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/existing-customers/borrow-more/
########Top of main content 
Pros and cons of joint borrowing 
From paying for a wedding to buying a property, there are many reasons why you may want to borrow money with your partner. 
Before you get a joint loan or any other form of shared credit, understand some of the benefits and risks involved.
Advantages of borrowing money together 
There are several advantages to taking out joint finance. For example, you may be able to borrow more money than you could by yourself. This could help you:
get a mortgage together 
buy a new car 
fund home improvements 
finance a wedding 
It can also make it easier to manage debt, as together you may be able to afford the repayments more comfortably than you would by yourself. And if one of you is not earning an income for a period, you’ll ideally still have the other person’s income to fall back on.
Risks of taking out a loan or overdraft as a couple 
If you take out a joint loan, you are both responsible for paying back the total amount, not just your half. If one person refuses or can't pay, the other must repay the loan.
If you have a joint current account, you probably have a joint overdraft too. Again, it’s important to remember that, if you use your overdraft – you are both responsible for paying back all the overdrawn money.
A partner’s poor credit score can also affect yours. When you have debt with someone, your credit history will be linked to theirs. If you apply to borrow money in the future, even if it’s in your name, the lender can take the other person’s credit history into account, as well as your own. 
It’s a good idea for both of you to check your individual credit reports before you apply.
Risks of sharing a credit card 
In the UK, you can’t get a joint credit card. A credit agreement is signed by only one person. You can, however, give your partner access to your credit card account by adding them as an additional card holder. They’ll receive a card that links to your credit account.
Remember – additional cardholders are not legally responsible for making payments. You should only add people you trust, as you could be left having to repay the debt.
Explore: Tips for paying off your credit card
Joint debt after separation 
Relationship breakdowns can be difficult and impact your finances. Any debts you have with your partner will have ‘joint and several liability’. This means, if your partner refuses or is unable to make the repayments, you’ll need to repay the full amount. 
If you have joint debts, these will still need to be paid after a separation, although it’s worth letting your bank know if you’re no longer together. 
If necessary, your bank may be able to freeze any joint accounts. They can also remove your partner from your credit card account if they're an additional cardholder. However, you'll still be responsible for repaying anything they may have spent on your credit card.
If you’re dealing with separation and want to discuss your finances, we're here to help.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Managing money as a couple 
How to save money as a couple 
Ways to help you get a mortgage\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/pros-and-cons-of-borrowing-money-together/
########Top of main content 
Hard vs soft credit checks: What's the difference? 
A credit check – or credit search – is when a company looks at your credit report to see your financial history. 
They may use this information to understand how reliable you are at borrowing and repaying money to determine whether they'll lend to you. 
Your credit report contains things like:
your name 
your address 
your borrowing history 
details of anyone you’re linked to financially 
If you’re looking to apply for finance, there are 2 different types of searches that can be carried out on your credit report – a soft credit check, and a hard credit check.
What is a soft credit check? 
Soft credit checks happen when you check your own credit report, or when a lender checks to see whether you’re eligible for certain products and interest rates.
What does a soft credit check show? 
A soft credit check shows a top-level view of your financial history. Lenders may want to do a soft credit check so they can pre-approve any offers, or show you what you could potentially be eligible for.
A soft credit check doesn’t leave a visible footprint on your credit file, but it is recorded. This means no other lenders can see it. A soft credit check won’t impact your credit score, but, you’ll be able to see if anyone has checked your credit history.
If you view your own credit report, this will also come up as a soft credit check. You may find that, in certain industries, employers will want to perform a soft credit check if you’ve recently applied for a job with them. This will depend on the employer.
What is a hard credit check? 
If you’ve made an application for finance, such as a credit card, loan or mortgage, the lender will do an in-depth check of your credit report.
What does a hard credit check show? 
A hard credit check will look at your financial history so the lender can see your track record of repaying money you've previously borrowed. 
Any negative marks on your credit report, like overdue payments or debt collection, may stay on your credit report for a number of years.
What's the difference between hard and soft credit checks? 
Soft credit checks aren't visible to companies, but hard checks are. This means soft credit checks won’t affect your credit score, whereas hard credit checks could. 
Keep in mind, lenders will be able to check if you’ve been successful for any credit applications.
If you apply for finance a number of times within a short space of time, it could signal to lenders that you may be struggling to manage your finances. 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
How to check your credit report 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a credit score? 
5 reasons to care about your credit score 
How to improve your credit score\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/hard-vs-soft-credit-checks/
########Top of main content 
Compare credit cards 
Compare interest rates, benefits and rewards. Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions. 
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove card Remove card Premier Credit Card 
Premier Credit Card
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
At a glance 
Premier Credit Card 
Get travel benefits, rewards and HSBC Premier Privileges - just for HSBC Premier customers
Balance transfer 
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers will revert to the standard variable rate.1 1 
Premier Credit Card 
0% for 18 months on balance transfers made within 60 days of account opening. A 2.99% fee applies for each balance transferred, minimum £5
Purchases introductory rate 
At the end of any promotional period, purchases will revert to the standard variable rate. 
Premier Credit Card 
0% on purchases for 9 months after account opening. For new HSBC credit card customers only.
Representative example 
Premier Credit Card 
Representative APR: 23.9% APR (variable)
Premier Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 23.9% p.a. (variable)
Premier Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Premier Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Can you apply? 
Quick check 
You can check the full eligibility criteria later 
Premier Credit Card 
For HSBC Premier customers
Premier Credit Card 
No specific annual income / pension requirements
Premier Credit Card 
Must be a permanent UK resident or hold a valid UK visa
Premier Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Premier Credit Card 
Have an HSBC Premier Account
Benefits 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Premier Credit Card 
Get 10% off on bookings at more than 180,000 Agoda hotels
Enjoy a 10% discount on selected Expedia hotels
Enjoy 12 months of Expedia+ Gold Membership
Access more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide for just £24 per person, per visit with Priority Pass.
Get up to 2 years extended warranty from Domestic & General Insurance plc on selected household appliances
Rewards 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Premier Credit Card 
Exchange your reward points for a selection of Laithwaites quality wines
Redeem your reward points for e-vouchers at retailers such as M&S and Amazon
Convert your reward points into airline miles with a wide range of airlines such as British Airways, Etihad, Asia Miles and Singapore Airlines
Earn 1 reward point for every £1 of eligible spend2 2 in sterling3 3, and 2 points for every £1 spent in other currencies
Important documents 
Premier Credit Card Credit Card Terms & Conditions This link will open in a new window 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (239.8 kB, PDF) 
Premier Credit Card Summary box This link will open in a new window 
Summary box (184.7 kB, PDF) 
Premier Credit Card Standards of lending practice This link will open in a new window 
Standards of lending practice (42.5 kB, PDF) 
Premier Credit Card Privacy notice This link will open in a new window 
Privacy notice (498 kB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply. 
Premier Credit Card 
Apply now Apply now 
Find out more Find out more 
Notes 
Balances can’t be transferred from all cards, for example those issued by members of the HSBC Group, including HSBC UK, first direct and M&S Bank. 
Eligible spend excludes cash advances, fees, balance transfers, cheques, refunds, interest or any other charges. 
Sterling currency includes transactions made in the UK, Jersey, Guernsey and Isle of Man as well as transactions overseas where you choose to pay in sterling rather than local currency. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/compare/premier-credit-card/
########Top of main content 
Compare credit cards 
Compare interest rates, benefits and rewards. Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions. 
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove card Remove card Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Premier World Elite Mastercard
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
At a glance 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Designed for the dedicated traveller - exclusive to existing HSBC Premier and Private Banking Account customers
Balance transfer 
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers will revert to the standard variable rate.1 1 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Not applicable
Purchases introductory rate 
At the end of any promotional period, purchases will revert to the standard variable rate. 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Not applicable
Representative example 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Representative APR: 59.3% APR (variable)
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £1,200
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Annual fee: £195
Can you apply? 
Quick check 
You can check the full eligibility criteria later 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
For HSBC Premier and Private Banking Account customers
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
No specific annual income / pension requirements
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Must be a permanent UK resident or hold a valid UK visa
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Must be over 18
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Have an HSBC Premier Account
Benefits 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Get 40,000 reward points 2 2 when you spend £12,000 or more on your card in the first year
Get 40,000 reward points 2 2 when you spend £2,000 on your card in the first 3 months
Get 10% off on bookings at more than 180,000 Agoda hotels
Enjoy a 10% discount on selected Expedia hotels
Enjoy 12 months of Expedia+ Gold Membership
Get access to more than 1,300 airport lounges worldwide with Priority Pass.
Rewards 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Exchange your reward points for a selection of Laithwaites quality wines
Redeem your reward points for e-vouchers at retailers such as M&S and Amazon
Convert your reward points into airline miles with a wide range of airlines such as British Airways, Etihad, Asia Miles and Singapore Airlines
Earn 2 reward points for every £1 of eligible spend2 2 in sterling3 3, and 4 points for every £1 spent in other currencies
Important documents 
Premier World Elite Mastercard Credit Card Terms & Conditions This link will open in a new window 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (234.9 kB, PDF) 
Premier World Elite Mastercard Summary box This link will open in a new window 
Summary box (108.4 kB, PDF) 
Premier World Elite Mastercard Standards of lending practice This link will open in a new window 
Standards of lending practice (42.5 kB, PDF) 
Premier World Elite Mastercard Privacy notice This link will open in a new window 
Privacy notice (498 kB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply. 
Premier World Elite Mastercard 
Apply now Apply now 
Find out more Find out more 
Notes 
Balances can’t be transferred from all cards, for example those issued by members of the HSBC Group, including HSBC UK, first direct and M&S Bank. 
Eligible spend excludes cash advances, fees, balance transfers, cheques, refunds, interest or any other charges. 
Sterling currency includes transactions made in the UK, Jersey, Guernsey and Isle of Man as well as transactions overseas where you choose to pay in sterling rather than local currency. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/compare/premier-world-elite-mastercard/
########Top of main content 
Compare credit cards 
Compare interest rates, benefits and rewards. Credit is subject to status, affordability and applicable terms and conditions. 
Comparing products (1, 2)
Remove card Remove card Student Credit Card 
Student Credit Card
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
Add card Add card Select a card to compare 
Select a card to compare
At a glance 
Student Credit Card 
Enjoy a purpose-built card for existing HSBC Student Bank account holders
Balance transfer 
At the end of any promotional period, balance transfers will revert to the standard variable rate.1 1 
Student Credit Card 
Not applicable
Purchases introductory rate 
At the end of any promotional period, purchases will revert to the standard variable rate. 
Student Credit Card 
Not applicable
Representative example 
Student Credit Card 
Representative APR: 18.9% APR (variable)
Student Credit Card 
Purchase rate: 18.9% p.a. (variable)
Student Credit Card 
Based on an assumed credit limit of £500
Student Credit Card 
Annual fee: No annual fee
Can you apply? 
Quick check 
You can check the full eligibility criteria later 
Student Credit Card 
For existing HSBC customers
Student Credit Card 
No specific annual income / pension requirements
Student Credit Card 
Must have been a UK resident for at least 3 years
Student Credit Card 
Must be over 18
Student Credit Card 
Have an HSBC Student Bank Account
Benefits 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Student Credit Card 
Not applicable
Rewards 
Terms and conditions apply. 
Student Credit Card 
Not applicable
Important documents 
Student Credit Card Credit Card Terms & Conditions This link will open in a new window 
Credit Card Terms & Conditions (1.3 MB, PDF) 
Student Credit Card Summary box This link will open in a new window 
Summary box (53.3 kB, PDF) 
Student Credit Card Standards of lending practice This link will open in a new window 
Standards of lending practice (42.5 kB, PDF) 
Student Credit Card Privacy notice This link will open in a new window 
Privacy notice (498 kB, PDF) 
Find out more 
Please read the full product information before you apply. 
Student Credit Card 
Apply now Apply now 
Find out more Find out more 
Notes 
Balances can’t be transferred from all cards, for example those issued by members of the HSBC Group, including HSBC UK, first direct and M&S Bank. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/compare/student-credit-card/
########Top of main content 
Getting a mortgage: first time buyers guide 
What you need to know to buy your first home 
Buying your first home is exciting, but it's also likely to be one of the biggest financial decisions you'll make. The good news is that the mortgage process doesn't have to be difficult. Here are the key steps to buying your first home.
Contact us 
0800 169 6333†
Table of contents 
Understanding your mortgage options
Getting a Decision in Principle
Finding a property
Applying for a mortgage
Finding legal representation
Valuing your property
Reviewing your mortgage offer
Carrying out the legal work
Exchanging and completing
Understanding your mortgage options 
Once you've decided that the time's right for you to get on the property ladder, you can find and compare HSBC mortgagesfind and compare HSBC mortgages This link will open in a new window online and use our mortgage calculator to get a rough idea of what you could borrow. 
Here's a quick summary of some of the mortgage types and repayment options you'll come across. 
Fixed rate mortgages fix your mortgage repayments until an agreed date, no matter what happens to interest rates
Tracker rate mortgages are a type of variable rate mortgage. They follow the Bank of England base rate during a specified period, so your repayments can vary - go up or down
Capital repayment means that each month you'll pay off some of what you've borrowed and some of the interest on the loan. If you keep your repayments up to date, at the end of the mortgage term you'll have paid off your mortgage
Interest-only repayment means that, you’re only paying the interest on what you’ve borrowed. You’ll be responsible for repaying the original amount you borrowed at the end of the mortgage term.
Find out how much you can borrow 
View all HSBC mortgages 
Find and compare HSBC mortgages Find and compare HSBC mortgages This link will open in a new window 
Fixed rate mortgages 
Tracker mortgages 
Payment choices 
Getting a Decision in Principle 
A Decision in Principle gives you a clear idea of how much you might be able to borrow from us. It's the first key step in the mortgage process.
You can apply for a Decision in Principle, over the phone, in branch or online. It should only take 15 minutes. It’s useful to have because it shows estate agents that you’re serious about house hunting and gives them an indication of the size of mortgage you may be able to get.
We base the Decision in Principle on what you tell us, our security checks and a soft credit check, which won't affect your credit file. It doesn't commit you (or us) to anything.
Get a Decision in Principle 
Finding a property 
Before you start house hunting, think carefully about location and put together a wish list to take to property viewings.
When you've found your perfect home, make an offer to the estate agent. It's worth putting this in writing. 
If you have your Decision in Principle, estate agents and sellers may look on you more favourably. You're more likely to be able to move quickly, which can help if you're about to become part of a property chain of buyers and sellers.
Get a Decision in Principle 
Applying for a mortgage 
You can apply for your mortgage, over the phone, in branch or online. 
We'll ask you to provide some supporting documents so we can evaluate your application. Have all of these ready to help the process go as smoothly as possible. 
You'll set up personal security details as part of the process. With these, you'll be able to access, update and continue your application online at any time. 
Applying in a branch or over the phone
Arrange an appointment with one of our mortgage advisers. They'll advise you on your mortgage and take you through your application 
Before your mortgage appointment, provide us with your supporting documentssupporting documents This link will open in a new window. This will be explained to you when you make your appointment.
Applying online
If you know what mortgage you want to apply for, you can apply online but you won't receive any advice
Use our Mortgage Document Uploader service to provide your supporting documents. We'll email you the link for this after you've completed your mortgage application.
Apply for a mortgage 
Application documents 
Mortgage fees 
Finding legal representation 
You'll need to appoint a solicitor or licensed conveyancer to represent you. This is your responsibility so try asking family and friends for recommendations or research local firms. 
Once you've chosen your solicitor or licensed conveyancer we'll check to see if they meet our criteria. If they do, then your chosen firm can act for you and HSBC.
Valuing your property 
We'll carry out a Standard Valuation of your property to confirm its value. This is for our benefit as a mortgage lender. We don't charge a fee for our Standard Valuation on our residential mortgages. 
For peace of mind, you may want to arrange a more detailed survey at your own expense.
A Homebuyer Report covers any urgent defects and problems
A Building Survey gives a fuller picture of the property’s construction, condition and maintenance needs.
Find out more about valuations 
Reviewing your mortgage offer 
If we've approved your application, we'll send you your mortgage offer, usually by email. Review it carefully and let us know if there's anything you don't understand or that doesn't look right. Otherwise you don't need to contact us.
Mortgage fees 
Carrying out the legal work 
Your solicitor or licensed conveyancer will deal with all the legal aspects of your mortgage. This involves carrying out legal checks called enquiries (with the seller's legal representative) and searches (with the local authority and other bodies).
They'll get the seller to fill in a questionnaire about the property and ask you for your deposit.
Tell your solicitor or licensed conveyancer if you've opened a Help to Buy: ISA. They'll be responsible for claiming your 25% government bonus. You should also let your\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/guidance/first-time-buyers-guide/
########Top of main content 
Existing customer rates 
If you're interested in switching rates or borrowing more on your HSBC mortgage, we've got a range to choose from 
Moving home 
First-time buyer 
Remortgage 
Buy-to-let 
Existing HSBC mortgage 
Not a UK resident or lived in the UK as a foreign national for less than 12 months? Find out how to apply for a non-UK resident mortgage and take a look at our latest residential and buy-to-let mortgage rates.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
What is my Loan to Value?
To work out your LTV, enter the estimated value of the property, or its purchase price. Then, enter the amount of the deposit you'll be paying, or, if you're looking to remortgage, enter the amount of equity you have in your current property.
Property value
Enter the estimated property value or purchase price
GBP
0
Deposit or equity amount
Enter the amount of money you'll be paying towards the property you're purchasing. Or, if you're looking to remortgage or borrow more, enter the amount of equity you have in your current property.
GBP
0
Summary
Loan to Value (LTV)
---
View our rates
Fixed-rate mortgages 
60% LTV 
65% LTV 
70% LTV 
75% LTV 
80% LTV 
85% LTV 
90% LTV 
95% LTV 
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage Initial interest rate Followed by a Variable Rate, currently Initial interest rate period Overall cost for comparison (APRC) Booking fee Annual overpayment allowance Cashback Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.73%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.7%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
2 Year Fixed Standard 
4.51%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	7.0%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let
5.17%
fixed
	
7.60%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	7.3%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 2,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
2 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
4.49%
fixed
	7.60%
	2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
7.8%
APRC
	£1999
	10%
	£0	£ 2,000,000	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
3 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.68%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	6.5%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
3 Year Fixed Standard
4.48%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	6.7%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.32%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.0%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
5 Year Fixed Standard
4.18%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.2%
APRC	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let
4.60%
fixed
	
7.60%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.5%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 2,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
5 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
4.22%
fixed
	7.60%
	5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
6.9%
APRC
	£1999
	10%
	£0	£ 2,000,000	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
5 Year Fixed Premier Standard
4.15%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.3%
APRC	
£1499
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
10 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.89%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
10 Years fixed rate until 30.04.34
	5.7%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
10 Year Fixed Standard 
4.77%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
10 Years fixed rate until 30.04.34
	5.8%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.73%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.7%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
	
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Standard	
Initial interest rate 
4.51%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 7.0%
APRC
	
Booking fee 
£999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
	
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let
	
Initial interest rate 
5.17%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
7.60%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 7.3%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 2,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
	
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
	
Initial interest rate 
4.49%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 7.60%
	
Initial interest rate period 2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 
7.8%
APRC
	
Booking fee £1999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) £ 2,000,000	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
	
Mortgage 3 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.68%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.5%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
	
Mortgage 3 Year Fixed Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.48%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.7%
APRC
	
Booking fee 
£999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Switch now

Borrow more
	
	
Mortgage 5 Year Fix\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/existing-customers/switch/rates/
########Top of main content 
Getting a mortgage: moving to HSBC 
How the remortgaging process works 
When you move your mortgage to HSBC you'll be remortgaging – changing your existing mortgage deal. The remortgaging process is straightforward and works in a similar way to getting a standard mortgage: you'll need to apply for a Decision in Principle and then for the mortgage itself.
Contact us 
0800 1696333†
Table of contents 
Deciding to remortgage
Getting a Decision in Principle
Applying for a mortgage
Finding a solicitor and conveyancer
Valuing your property
Reviewing your mortgage offer
Finalising the legal work
Setting a completion date
1. Deciding to remortgage 
Your first step is to work out whether it's the right time for you to move your mortgage to HSBC. 
You might be considering remortgaging because: 
the fixed rate on your current mortgage is coming to an end
you want a better deal that will save you money on your current mortgage
your financial circumstances are about to change
you'd like to fix your mortgage rate for a few years
you're considering borrowing more – for home improvements or to consolidate existing loans or credit card debts
View all HSBC mortgages 
Find and compare HSBC mortgages Find and compare HSBC mortgages This link will open in a new window 
You can find and compare HSBC mortgages online but it's worth bearing in mind the following:
How much to borrow 
You can use our mortgage calculator to get a quick indication of the maximum you could borrow, please note this doesn't factor in your individual circumstances and we strongly recommend you follow this up with a Decision in Principle.
Your property may be worth more now than when you took out your original mortgage. This could mean that your Loan to Value (LTV) ratio will be lower than when you took out your original mortgage. For example, if you brought your home for £200,000 and took out a repayment mortgage of £170,000. At the time of purchase, this would give you an LTV of 85%. A few years down the line you may only have £100,000 outstanding on your mortgage, therefore your new LTV would be 50%. A lower LTV ratio is good news because the rates available are more likely to be better than higher LTV mortgages.
How much could you borrow 
Get a Decision in Principle 
Costs 
Make sure you consider all the costs of remortgaging, rather than going straight for the deal with the lowest interest rate. These may include booking fees, completion fees and legal fees. Your current lender may charge you an exit fee and, if you're breaking the terms of your current mortgage – for instance, leaving before a fixed rate period is up – you may have to pay an early repayment charge.
We'll carry out a Standard Valuation of your property to confirm its value. This is for our benefit as a mortgage lender. We don't charge Standard Valuation fees on our residential mortgages.
Mortgage fees 
Timing 
If you're looking to remortgage because your current fixed rate is coming to an end, plan for your new mortgage to start immediately after the fixed period has ended to avoid those early repayment charges.
It can take 8 to 12 weeks to move your mortgage, so don't leave your application to the last minute.
2. Getting a Decision in Principle 
Once you've decided to move your mortgage to HSBC, the next step is to apply for a Decision in Principle. This will show how much you might be able to borrow from us. 
It doesn't commit you to anything and it's not a guarantee that we'll lend to you.
You can get a Decision in Principle over the phone, in branch or online. It's based on what you tell us, our security checks and a soft credit check, which will have no impact on your credit score. We'll only carry out a full credit check when you apply for your mortgage.
Get a Decision in Principle 
3. Applying for a mortgage 
If you're happy with the Decision in Principle you can go ahead and apply for your new mortgage.
You'll need to provide supporting documentssupporting documents This link will open in a new window so we can confirm your income and other details. This will include paperwork for your current mortgage and home insurance cover. Have all this ready to help the process go as smoothly as possible. 
Applying in a branch or over the phone 
Arrange an appointment with one of our mortgage advisers. They'll advise you and take you through your application
Before your mortgage appointment, provide us with your supporting documentssupporting documents This link will open in a new window. This will be explained to you when you make your appointment.
Applying online 
If you know what mortgage you want to apply for, you can apply online without contacting us but you won't receive any advice 
The quickest way to share your documents with us is to use our Mortgage Document Uploader service. We'll email you the link for this after you've completed your application.
Once we've got all the information we need, we'll review your application and let you know the decision as soon as possible by phone, email or text.
How to apply for a mortgage 
4. Conveyancing options 
Moving your mortgage does involve some legal work.
You may have the option of choosing a bank appointed panel solicitor where the standard legal fees are covered by us.
Or
You may be able to appoint your own solicitor or licensed conveyancer to act for us both, as long as they meet our criteria. You’ll pay all the legal fees for this.
If any additional legal work is required, you will be responsible for these costs.
5. Valuing your property 
We'll arrange for your property to be valued to check that it will provide security for your proposed new mortgage. We won't charge you for this.
Find out more about valuations 
6. Reviewing your mortgage offer 
If we've approved your mortgage application, we'll send you the offer documents to review, usually by email. You don't need to contact us unless there's anything you don't understand or if something appears to be incorrect. 
7. Finalising the legal\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/guidance/moving-to-hsbc-guide/
########Top of main content 
Remortgage rates 
We offer a range of award-winning mortgages, with our latest rates if you're looking to remortgage 
If you have an HSBC mortgage and the rate is due to expire or has already come to an end, you may want to switch your rate, find out how.
Close screen reader 
Moving home 
First-time buyer 
Remortgage 
Buy-to-let 
Existing HSBC mortgage 
The rates below are available to people looking to remortgage to HSBC. You'll be considered a remortgage customer if your mortgage is with another provider and you're looking to switch to us, or borrow more for your current home. 
Not a UK resident or lived in the UK as a foreign national for less than 12 months? Find out how to apply for a non-UK resident mortgage and take a look at our latest residential and buy-to-let mortgage rates.
It's worth considering what your Loan to Value (LTV) will be. Your LTV is the ratio between the amount of the loan you take out and the value of your property as a whole, as a percentage. 
A low LTV ratio is good news because the rates available are likely to be lower than higher LTV mortgages. For example, a £100,000 property with an £80,000 mortgage = an 80% LTV.
Use our calculator to work out your Loan To Value, so you can see which rates may be available to you. If your Loan To Value falls between two bands, you should use the highest band. E.g. if your LTV was 89% you would need to use the 90% LTV rates.
What is my Loan to Value?
To work out your LTV, enter the estimated value of the property, or its purchase price. Then, enter the amount of the deposit you'll be paying, or, if you're looking to remortgage, enter the amount of equity you have in your current property.
Property value
Enter the estimated property value or purchase price
GBP
0
Deposit or equity amount
Enter the amount of money you'll be paying towards the property you're purchasing. Or, if you're looking to remortgage or borrow more, enter the amount of equity you have in your current property.
GBP
0
Summary
Loan to Value (LTV)
---
View our rates
Fixed-rate mortgages 
A fixed-rate mortgage means that your payments will stay the same until the end date of the fixed-rate period, even if interest rates change.
60% LTV 
70% LTV 
75% LTV 
80% LTV 
85% LTV 
90% LTV 
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage Initial interest rate Followed by a Variable Rate, currently Initial interest rate period Overall cost for comparison (APRC) Booking fee Annual overpayment allowance Incentives Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.89%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.8%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	Standard Legal Fees*	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle	
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.89%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.8%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	Cashback £300	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
2 Year Fixed Standard
4.64%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.8%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	Standard Legal Fees*	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle	
2 Year Fixed Standard
4.64%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.8%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	Cashback £300	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
3 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.84%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	6.6%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	Standard Legal Fees*	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
3 Year Fixed Standard
4.59%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	6.6%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	Standard Legal Fees*	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle	
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.44%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.1%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	Standard Legal Fees*	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle	
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.44%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.1%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	Cashback £300	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
5 Year Fixed Standard
4.29%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.1%
APRC	
£999
	
10%
	Standard Legal Fees*	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle	
5 Year Fixed Standard
4.29%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.1%
APRC	
£999
	
10%
	Cashback £300	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
5 Year Fixed Premier Standard
4.26%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.1%
APRC	
£1499
	
10%
	Standard Legal Fees*	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
10 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.89%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
10 Years fixed rate until 30.04.34
	5.7%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	Standard Legal Fees*	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
10 Year Fixed Standard
4.77%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
10 Years fixed rate until 30.04.34
	5.6%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	Standard Legal Fees*	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle	
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.89%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.8%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Incentives Standard Legal Fees*	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle	
	
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.89%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.8%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Incentives Cashback £300	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.64%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.8%
APRC
	
Booking fee 
£999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Incentives Standard Legal Fees*	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle	
	
\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/move-your-mortgage/rates/
########Top of main content 
First-time buyer rates 
We offer a range of award-winning mortgages, with our latest rates for first-time buyers
	
If you have an HSBC mortgage and the rate is due to expire or has already come to an end, you may want to switch your rate, find out how.
Close screen reader 
Moving home 
First-time buyer 
Remortgage 
Buy-to-let 
Existing HSBC mortgage 
The rates below are available to first-time buyers. You'll be considered a first-time buyer if you've never owned a residential property in the UK, or anywhere else in the world and you intend for the property to be your main home. If you'd like to apply for a joint mortgage, both applicants must be first-time buyers.
Not a UK resident or lived in the UK as a foreign national for less than 12 months? Find out how to apply for a non-UK resident mortgage and take a look at our latest residential and buy-to-let mortgage rates.
It's worth considering what your Loan to Value (LTV) will be. Your LTV is the ratio between the amount of the loan you take out and the value of your property as a whole, as a percentage. 
A low LTV ratio is good news because the rates available are likely to be lower than higher LTV mortgages. For example, a £100,000 property with an £80,000 mortgage = an 80% LTV.
Fixed-rate mortgages 
A fixed-rate mortgage means that your payments will stay the same until the end date of the fixed-rate period, even if interest rates change.
60% LTV 
70% LTV 
75% LTV 
80% LTV 
85% LTV 
90% LTV 
95% LTV 
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage
Initial interest rate Followed by a Variable Rate, currently Initial interest rate period Overall cost for comparison (APRC) Booking fee Annual overpayment allowance Cashback Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.94%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.8%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
2 Year Fixed Standard
4.64%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	6.8%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
3 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.89%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	6.6%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle	
3 Year Fixed Standard
4.59%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	6.6%
APRC
	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle	
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.32%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.0%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
5 Year Fixed Standard
4.18%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.0%
APRC	
£999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
5 Year Fixed Premier Standard
4.15%
fixed
	
6.99%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.0%
APRC	
£1499
	
10%
	£0	
£ 5,000,000 
	Get a decision in principle
	
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.94%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.8%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage
2 Year Fixed Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.64%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.8%
APRC
	
Booking fee 
£999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage
3 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.89%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.6%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle	
	
Mortgage
3 Year Fixed Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.59%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
3 Years fixed rate until 30.04.27
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.6%
APRC
	
Booking fee 
£999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle	
	
Mortgage
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver
	
Initial interest rate 
4.32%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.0%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage
5 Year Fixed Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.18%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.0%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
	
Mortgage
5 Year Fixed Premier Standard
	
Initial interest rate 
4.15%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
6.99%
	
Initial interest rate period 
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.0%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£1499
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 5,000,000 
	
Get a decision in principle
	
70% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage Initial interest rate Followed by a Variable Rate, currently Initial interest rate period Overall cost for comparison (APRC) Booking fee Annual overpayment allowance Cashback Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver
4.99%
fixed
	
6.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/first-time-buyers/rates/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage fees 
Understand more about our fees 
Be clear about any fees you could pay 
We'll explain what's meant by each fee to help you understand what may be payable. So, you'll have a better idea of what you may need to pay if you apply for a mortgage with us, want to make changes during your mortgage or to exit your HSBC mortgage.
Go straight to:
Fees before your first mortgage payment
Fees for changes during your mortgage
Fees when you exit your mortgage
Fees in more detail
What to do next
Fees before your first mortgage payment 
Booking fee: £0 to £1,999 
This is charged on some mortgages to secure a particular deal. We offer two fee options on our mortgages.
Standard – these mortgages have a booking fee of £0 to £1,999, but usually have a lower interest rate during the initial fixed-rate or tracker period.

You can pay the booking fee up front, or add the booking fee to your mortgage, which will increase the total cost of your borrowing.
Fee saver – these mortgages don't have a booking fee.
Completion fee: £17 
This is a £17 fee that covers us electronically transferring your mortgage funds to you or your solicitor. It's usually taken within 14 days of the transfer of funds, from the account that you set up to pay your monthly mortgage payment. It will be shown as 'HSBC Mortgage Fee' on your statement.
Free standard valuation: £0 
We'll cover the cost of one standard valuation of your property, as this is needed by us as part of your mortgage application. It could be a physical inspection or an electronic valuation. This is to calculate how much we can lend to you, but there's no cost.
This is separate from any valuation or property survey that you might want to carry out for yourself and cover the costs for, such as a homebuyer report or a full building survey.
	
Legal fees to HSBC: £0 to £295 
When you buy a property, you’ll usually appoint a solicitor or licensed conveyancer to complete the necessary legal work. Costs for this vary and will be charged directly to you, from your solicitor who'll confirm the cost. 
If your chosen solicitor doesn’t meet our criteria, a separate solicitor will be appointed for HSBC – and you'll be charged £295 for this. If your chosen solicitor is on our approved panel they'll represent you and HSBC, so we won't charge £295.
Other fees 
Other fees and charges may be payable, depending on the type of your mortgage application. We'll explain any relevant fees to you during your application.
Fees for changes during your mortgage 
Early repayment charge (ERC) 
Fixed-rate mortgage: ERC variable
You may have to pay an ERC if you have a fixed-rate mortgage, and you:
overpay more than your annual overpayment allowance
switch your mortgage rate or lender during the fixed period
take only part of your mortgage with you to a new property
Why we charge ERCs
When you have a fixed rate mortgage with us, we’re expecting that the money you’ve borrowed is kept on that rate until the end of the fixed rate period. So, if you change your rate, repay your mortgage, or repay more than your annual overpayment allowance during that period, there’s a cost to us. The early repayment charge compensates us for this.
How is the ERC calculated? 
You'll have an annual overpayment allowance (AOA) equivalent to 10% of the outstanding balance of your mortgage. This is calculated annually on the date your fixed-rate period started.
You can make additional payments during the fixed-rate period without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC).
Anything over the 10% will incur an ERC, which you may have to pay if you repay the whole or part of your mortgage early. This includes if you move to a different HSBC mortgage rate, or move to a different lender during your fixed period.
The ERC is calculated as 1% of the amount repaid early, above any annual overpayment allowance, for each remaining year of the period during which the ERC applies, reducing on a daily basis. However, (after taking your allowance into account) a maximum 5% of your overpayment could be charged.
Tracker mortgage: No ERC
There's no early repayment charge, so you can make unlimited overpayments.
Fee for changing a name on your property deeds: £294 
There's a £294 fee if you'd like to add or remove someone from the title deeds of your property, also known as a 'transfer of title fee'. This is to cover the legal work, but additional fees may apply if any other legal work is needed.
Fees when you exit your mortgage 
Administration fee for exiting your mortgage: £0 
At HSBC there's no administration fee for exiting your mortgage. Some lenders do have an exit fee to cover administration costs.
Early repayment charge (ERC): variable 
If you have a fixed-rate mortgage and you decide to close your mortgage during the fixed period, you'll need to pay an ERC. Find out how the ERC is calculated.
Fees in more detail 
If you'd like to understand more about our fees, read our Tariff of Charges which explains all of the costs in more detail.
HSBC Tariff of mortgage charges (PDF, 210KB) HSBC Tariff of mortgage charges (PDF, 210KB) Download 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
What to do next
Get a Decision in Principle
If you're ready to apply for a new mortgage, start your application with a Decision in Principle.
Our rates
Not sure what mortgage could be right for you? Take a look at our latest rates.
Switch your mortgage rate
If your fixed-rate is coming to an end, or you're looking for a better deal, find out how to switch.
Mortgages
Still want to do some research before you apply? We'll help you understand all about mortgages.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open i\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/fees/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage overpayment calculator 
Use our calculators to find out how a regular or lump sum overpayment could reduce the term and interest paid on your mortgage.
Which type of overpayment do you want to make? 
If you would like to make the same overpayment each month on an ongoing basis please use our regular overpayment calculatorregular overpayment calculator anchors to the regular overpayment calculator.
If you would like to make a one off, lump sum or adhoc payment please use our lump sum overpayment calculatorour lump sum overpayment calculator anchor to lump sum overpayment calculator.
Regular overpayment 
Add your mortgage details to see how making a regular overpayment could reduce the overall term and interest of your HSBC UK mortgage.
Outstanding mortgage balance
Enter the remaining balance of your mortgage
GBP
0
Mortgage term in years
Enter the amount of years left to pay on your mortgage
Mortgage term in months
If you also have remaining months, enter the number between 1 and 11
Current interest rate
Enter the interest rate you are paying on your mortgage
%
0.00
Regular overpayment amount
Enter the amount you would like to overpay by each month
GBP
0
Summary
Current payment
---
New mortgage payment 
---
Current interest to pay
---
Interest savings
---
Potential term reduction in years
---
Potential term reduction in months
---
Calculator assumptions Calculator assumptions anchors to calculator assumptions section 
Lump sum overpayment 
Add your mortgage details to see how making a lump sum overpayment could reduce the overall term and interest of your HSBC UK mortgage.
Outstanding mortgage balance
Enter the remaining balance of your mortgage
GBP
0
Mortgage term in years
Enter the amount of years left to pay on your mortgage
Mortgage term in months
If you also have remaining months, enter the number between 1 and 11
Current interest rate
Enter the interest rate you are paying on your mortgage
%
0.00
Lump sum payment amount
Enter the lump sum amount you would like to overpay by
GBP
0
Summary
Current payment
---
Current interest to pay
---
Interest savings
---
Potential term reduction in years
---
Potential term reduction in months
---
Calculator assumptions Calculator assumptions anchors to calculator assumptions section 
If you pay more than your annual overpayment allowance, you could incur an early repayment charge. Details of this can be found on your offer document.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Calculator assumptions 
The figures provided by this calculator are for illustrative purposes only, and assume;
your interest rate will stay the same for the term of your mortgage
the months are all the same length
repayments are rounded up or down to the nearest pound
the period of time is rounded down to the closest month
interest saved is rounded up or down to the nearest pound
the calculator doesn’t account for any early repayments charges
if making a regular overpayment, you’ll be paying that every month for the remaining term
If you have more than one mortgage loan part, you must calculate the overpayment on each loan separately.
Next steps
Find out more about paying your mortgage off early
Make an overpayment or additional payment
Find out if there are any fees to be aware of before you make an overpayment
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/mortgage-overpayment-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Buy-to-let rates 
We offer a range of award-winning mortgages, with our latest rates if you're looking for buy-to-let 
If you have an HSBC mortgage and the rate is due to expire or has already come to an end, you may want to switch your rate, find out how.
Close screen reader 
Moving home 
First-time buyer 
Remortgage 
Buy-to-let 
Existing HSBC mortgage 
The rates below are available if you're looking to purchase a buy-to-let mortgage or to remortgage a buy-to-let property.
Purchasing a buy-to-let property
Remortgaging a buy-to-let property
Not a UK resident or lived in the UK as a foreign national for less than 12 months? Find out how to apply for a non-UK resident mortgage and take a look at our latest residential and buy-to-let mortgage rates.
It's worth considering what your loan-to-value (LTV) will be. Your LTV is the ratio between the amount of the loan you take out and the value of your property as a whole, as a percentage.
A low LTV ratio is good news because the rates available are likely to be lower than higher LTV mortgages. For example, a £100,000 property with an £80,000 mortgage = an 80% LTV.
Purchasing a buy-to-let property 
Fixed-rate mortgages 
A fixed-rate mortgage means that your payments will stay the same untill the end date of the fixed rate period, even if interest rates change.
60% LTV 
65% LTV 
75% LTV 
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage Initial interest rate Followed by a Variable Rate, currently Initial interest rate period Overall cost for comparison (APRC) Booking fee Annual overpayment allowance Cashback Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let 5.24%
fixed	7.60%	2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26	7.4%
APRC	£0	10%	£0	£ 2,000,000	How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
2 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
4.64%
fixed
	
7.60%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	7.5%
APRC	
£1999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 2,000,000 
	How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let
4.64%
fixed
	
7.60%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.5%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 2,000,000 
	How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
5 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
4.34%
fixed
	
7.60%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.6%
APRC	
£1999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 2,000,000 
	How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
60% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let	
Initial interest rate 5.24%
fixed	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 7.60%	
Initial interest rate period 2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 7.4%
APRC	
Booking fee £0	
Annual overpayment allowance 10%	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) £ 2,000,000	
How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
	
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
	
Initial interest rate 
4.64%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
7.60%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 7.5%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£1999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 2,000,000 
	
How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
	
Mortgage 5 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let
	
Initial interest rate 
4.64%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
7.60%
	
Initial interest rate period 
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.5%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£0
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 2,000,000 
	
How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
	
Mortgage 5 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
	
Initial interest rate 
4.34%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
7.60%
	
Initial interest rate period 
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 6.6%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£1999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 2,000,000 
	
How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
65% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage Initial interest rate Followed by a Variable Rate, currently Initial interest rate period Overall cost for comparison (APRC) Booking fee Annual overpayment allowance Cashback Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
2 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let 5.24%
fixed	7.60%	2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26	7.4%
APRC	£0	10%	£0	£ 1,000,000	How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
2 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
4.64%
fixed
	
7.60%
	
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	7.5%
APRC	
£1999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 1,000,000 
	How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
5 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let
4.64%
fixed
	
7.60%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.5%
APRC	
£0
	
10%
	£0	
£ 1,000,000 
	How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
5 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
4.34%
fixed
	
7.60%
	
5 Years fixed rate until 30.04.29
	6.6%
APRC	
£1999
	
10%
	£0	
£ 1,000,000 
	How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
65% Maximum Loan to Value (LTV) 
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Fee Saver Buy To Let	
Initial interest rate 5.24%
fixed	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 7.60%	
Initial interest rate period 2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 7.4%
APRC	
Booking fee £0	
Annual overpayment allowance 10%	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) £ 1,000,000	
How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let mortgage	
	
Mortgage 2 Year Fixed Standard Buy To Let
	
Initial interest rate 
4.64%
fixed
	
Followed by a Variable Rate, currently 
7.60%
	
Initial interest rate period 
2 Years fixed rate until 30.04.26
	
Overall cost for comparison (APRC) 7.5%
APRC	
Booking fee 
£1999
	
Annual overpayment allowance 
10%
	
Cashback £0	
Maximum loan amount (subject to LTV and Lending Policy) 
£ 1,000,000 
	
How to applyHow to apply for a buy to let m\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/buy-to-let/rates/
########Top of main content 
Bank of England base rate change calculator for tracker mortgages 
Use our calculator to see how a Bank of England base rate change could affect your tracker rate mortgage payments. 
What is the Bank of England base rate? 
This is the official interest rate set by the Bank of England Monetary Policy Committee. The base rate is reviewed throughout the year and can fluctuate.
How a base rate change will affect your tracker mortgage 
If you're currently on a tracker rate mortgage, a base rate change will affect your mortgage interest rate and payments. Use our calculator to get an idea of what a rate change could mean for your mortgage payments.
When your mortgage is affected by a base rate change we’ll write to you to confirm your new interest rate and monthly payment details.
Find out more about the base rate and your mortgage.
If you're worried about interest rates and paying your mortgage, we can help. Read more about how you could manage or reduce your payments.
How to use our base rate change calculator 
To use our calculator, you’ll need to enter your remaining balance, the number of years and months left on your mortgage, and your current total interest rate (including the base rate).
You’ll then need to enter a new total interest rate (including the base rate) to see how a different interest rate could change your monthly payments.
Your mortgage information can be found on your annual statement, or by logging onto online banking.
Bank of England Base Rate Calculator 
Add your mortgage details to find out how a change in interest rates could impact your monthly payments
Mortgage amount
Enter the remaining balance of your mortgage
GBP
0
Mortgage term in years
Enter the amount of years left to pay on your mortgage
Mortgage term in months
If you also have remaining months, enter the number between 1 and 11
Current interest rate
Enter the interest rate you are paying on your mortgage
This is a Current interest rate fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
%
0.00
0.00%
15.00%
Repayment type
Choose your repayment type in the dropdown below
Capital
Capital
Interest only
New interest rate
Enter the interest rate that your mortgage might change to
This is a New interest rate fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
%
0.00
0.00%
15.00%
Summary
Current monthly payment
---
New monthly payment
---
Change in monthly payment
---
The information provided by this calculator is a guide and should be used for indicative purposes only.
All tracker rates are subject to a 0% floor. This floor means that, no matter how far the Bank of England base rate is reduced, the interest rate on a tracker mortgage will never be a negative figure.
Next steps
I want to switch my mortgage rate
Find out more about switching to a different mortgage rate.
Unsure about any of the terms we have used?
See our jargon buster for help.
Bank of England base rate
Find out more about the base rate and your mortgage.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/bank-of-england-base-rate-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Move your mortgage rate to your new home 
Take your HSBC mortgage rate with you when you move 
When you move, move your HSBC mortgage rate too 
If you've got a mortgage with us already, you can move or 'port' your rate to your new property if you're moving home.
Take a look and see what best describes your move: 
You need a bigger mortgage – you can move your rate and if you need to, you can borrow more on a new rate at the same time. 
You want to borrow the same amount – you can move your rate to your new home, so you won’t have to pay an early repayment charge (ERC). 
You need a smaller mortgage – you can move a smaller amount of your current mortgage and rate to your new home. However, you may pay an ERC on the amount you don’t take with you. 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Early repayment charges (ERC) 
If you buy a new home and move your HSBC mortgage over to the new property for the same amount, same rate, and same rate expiry date as your current mortgage, you won't pay an early repayment charge (ERC). 
There are times when you would need to pay an ERC: 
If you choose a new rate and decide not to port your existing mortgage rate.
If you're borrowing less than your current mortgage balance and want to port your mortgage rate, you may pay an ERC if the amount you want to pay off is above your remaining annual overpayment allowance. For example, you might have a mortgage balance of £100,000 and a remaining annual overpayment allowance of £10,000. If you wanted to port £85,000 to your new home, this would be a £15,000 reduction to your mortgage. There would be an early repayment charge on the £5,000 which is above your remaining £10,000 overpayment allowance.
If you pay your mortgage off and then buy a new home at a later date, you’ll need to initially pay the full ERC. This can be refunded if you apply for your new mortgage and complete your new purchase within 6 months of your old mortgage being repaid. You need to borrow the same amount as your mortgage closing balance, at the same rate and with the same rate expiry date for the full refund.
Find out more about early repayment charges 
Move your mortgage rate online 
You can move your HSBC mortgage rate online if:
you're registered for online banking
your new mortgage will be completed within 6 months of your existing mortgage being repaid
you have more than 3 months remaining on your current rate
You’ll need to complete a new mortgage application to move mortgage rate when you're buying a new home. You'll need to meet our affordability criteria and the new property will need to meet our lending and valuation criteria.
Log on to move your mortgage Log on to move your mortgage This link will open in a new window 
View our rates for mortgage customers 
Thinking about moving home but your rate is coming to an end? 
If you're on our standard variable rate, or your existing fixed or tracker rate is coming to an end, you can select one of our latest rates when you apply for a mortgage on your new property.
If you're not ready to move home but you want to secure your rate in readiness for moving home at a later date, you can look to switch rates on your existing mortgage for now. Once you’re ready to move home, providing your rate switch has been applied, you can make your application to port your rate to your new property.
Move your mortgage rate by phone 
If you don't meet the above criteria or you need support from our expert Mortgage team, give us a call to move your HSBC mortgage rate to your new property.
0800 169 6333
Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Frequently asked questions
Can I move my mortgage rate if I sell my property but don't purchase a new one at the same time? 
Yes, you can move your mortgage rate to a new property, if you apply for a mortgage within 6 months of selling your existing property.
If early repayment charges apply to your mortgage upon the sale of your property, you'll need to pay this, but we'll refund your early repayment charges as long as your new loan is opened within 6 months of closing your original mortgage loan.
This is subject to your new property meeting our lending and valuation criteria.
Can I move my rate to a property that has recently been bought outright? 
No, you can't move your mortgage rate to a property that has already been purchased or is already owned. To move your mortgage, you must be buying a property.
Can I move my residential mortgage rate to a property that I am purchasing for buy-to-let? 
No, you're only able to move your residential mortgage rate to a residential property that you're purchasing.
Can I move my mortgage rate if I'm reducing the amount of borrowing for my new property? 
Yes, you can move your fixed-rate to your new property, but you may incur an early repayment charge based on the amount of lending that you're not taking with you.
Can I move my joint mortgage rate if my new mortgage is just in one name? 
Yes. If you are each buying a new home individually you are each entitled to 50% of the amount on the current rate or rates. If just one of you is buying a home, then that individual can have up to 100% of the current rate or rates, but only if the other mortgage holder gives their consent.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/existing-customers/move/
########Top of main content 
How conveyancing works with HSBC 
A conveyancer handles the legal side of things when you move your mortgage to a different lender and when you buy and sell a property. They provide legal advice on all aspects of the transaction.
Other tasks they do are:
Check the legal title to the property 
Manage the chain (if there is one) for exchange of contracts and completion 
Collect and transfer money, including stamp duty (if payable) 
If acting for the buyer, carry out property searches to check for any issues that might affect the property's value 
Get the redemption figure from your existing lender and repay any existing mortgage on completion 
Conveyancing step by step 
Here’s what you need to know about these 5 different types of conveyancing with HSBC.
First-time buyer conveyancing 
When you buy your first home, you’ll be responsible for choosing your own solicitor or licensed conveyancer. If you choose a solicitor, you need to make sure they're specialist property lawyers and agree the cost of legal work with them. Once you've chosen your solicitor or licensed conveyancer, we’ll check to make sure they can act for you and HSBC.
Make sure you check this table for the basic requirements for a solicitor to be able to act for us, as well as you. If they don't meet our criteria, we’ll have to choose a solicitor or licensed conveyancer to act for us and you'll have to pay for them.
Your solicitor must meet the following criteria to act for both you and HSBC 
Mortgage amount
Number of partners in the firm 
< £350K	1 solicitor / licensed conveyancer / regulated managers	
£350K to £2m
	
2 or 3 solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers
	
£2m+	4 or more solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers	
Your solicitor must meet the following criteria to act for both you and HSBC 
Mortgage amount
< £350K	
Number of partners in the firm 1 solicitor / licensed conveyancer / regulated managers	
	
Mortgage amount
£350K to £2m
	
Number of partners in the firm 
2 or 3 solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers
	
	
Mortgage amount
£2m+	
Number of partners in the firm 4 or more solicitors / licensed conveyancers / regulated managers	
The firm must be registered with one of the following:
Solicitors Regulation Authority (and must be accredited with The Law Society’s Conveyancing Quality Scheme)
The Law Society of Scotland
The Law Society of Northern Ireland
The Council for Licenced Conveyancers
All firms must have a minimum professional indemnity insurance cover of £2 million, and for lending over £2 million they must have professional indemnity insurance of £5 million.
England and Wales: 
Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) regulated firms must be Conveyancing Quality Scheme (CQS) accredited.
All Council of Licensed Conveyancer (CLC) regulated firms can act for HSBC.
Scotland and Northern Ireland: 
All Scottish and Northern Ireland regulated solicitors can act for HSBC.
In all cases, our due diligence checks and lending criteria apply.
Key stages of your conveyancing process: 
Choose your conveyancer – Buyers and sellers each instruct their chosen conveyancers to act for them.
Property searches – As part of the legal work, your conveyancer will carry out searches on the property to make sure there are no other factors you should be aware of. These include local authority, flood risk and water authority searches.
Contract draft - The seller’s conveyancer prepares a draft contract, which gets sent to the buyer’s conveyancer. The buyer’s conveyancer then checks the contract, the mortgage offer and if any other legal work is required.
Help to Buy: ISA – Tell your conveyancer if you’ve opened a Help to Buy: ISA. They’ll be responsible for claiming 25% government bonus. You should also let your ISA provider know that you're closing the account.
Signing contracts - Your conveyancer will ask you to sign the contract and discuss with you any other costs payable, such as stamp duty. Then they'll agree a date with the other party to complete the sale/purchase of the property. At this stage, you'll need to send the deposit to your solicitor.
Exchanging contracts – Your conveyancer will then exchange contracts with the seller’s conveyancer and pay any deposits. At this stage, you’re legally committed to purchase the property.
Completion – If you had a Help to Buy: ISA, the government will pay the bonus to your conveyancer. They'll add it to your funds at completion. Once you've agreed your completion date, your conveyancer will ask us for the mortgage advance and send the funds to the seller’s conveyancer. When the seller’s conveyancer confirms they've received all the money that's due, the seller should drop the keys at the estate agent for your collection.
After completion – Your conveyancer will pay any stamp duty due to HMRC for you. They'll also apply to register your ownership of the property with the Land Registry. Once registration is complete, they'll confirm this back to you.
Conveyancing in Scotland and Northern Ireland works differently compared to England and Wales. If you’re buying or selling a property in either Scotland or Northern Ireland, you need to take legal advice as early as possible.
How much does conveyancing cost? 
According to the MoneyHelperMoneyHelper This link will open in a new window, legal fees can range from £850 to £1,500 including VAT. Local property searches are typically around £250 to £300, on top of the legal fees.
How long does conveyancing take? 
In England and Wales, the conveyancing process can take up to 12 weeks, on average, to complete. However, it could take longer if it’s a complex mortgage or you're part of a chain.
Extra help for first-time buyers 
Home mover conveyancing 
When you buy or sell property, you’ll be responsible for choosing your own solicitor or licensed conveyancer. If you choose a solicitor, you need to make sure they are specialist property lawyers and agree the cost of legal work. Once you've cho\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/existing-customers/conveyancing/
########Top of main content 
Rent out your home temporarily 
Apply for our consent to let your home temporarily 
Rent out your home while you're away 
Going travelling or have a change in circumstances? You might decide to rent out your home for the short-term. If you've got an HSBC mortgage you can apply for our consent to let your property on a temporary basis – for up to 27 months.
If our consent for you to let your home is agreed, you could:
Have the freedom to work, live or travel elsewhere short-term 
Get rental income to cover your mortgage payments 
Rent out your home for up to 27 months 
Switch to a new mortgage rate during the period of renting your home – this will need to be done over the phone with us 
No other changes to your mortgage can be made during the period of renting out your home.
Looking to let your home more permanently? You'll need to apply for a Buy-to-Let mortgage instead.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Who can apply? 
It's a condition of your mortgage that you must have our consent before letting your home.
To apply, you should:
have an HSBC residential mortgage
only need to rent out your home on a temporary basis – up to 27 months
have the consent of all the mortgage account holders
have held your mortgage with us for at least 6 months
In exceptional circumstances, for example if you’re a member of the armed forces and you're taking up a new post, you may be accepted earlier than 6 months. 
Apply for our consent to let online 
Select the chat icon and send one of our friendly agents a message with your request to temporarily rent out your home. You’ll need to give the reason for the request and the time period you’re asking for.
You can chat to us Monday to Friday 08:00 to 17:00. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary. 
Apply for our consent to let by phone 
If you'd prefer to speak to our mortgage team, or you're joint mortgage holders, give us a call to apply for our consent to let. You can also call us if you're looking to switch to a new mortgage rate during the period of renting your home.
0800 169 6333
Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Frequently Asked Questions
Can I apply for your consent if I'm looking to rent out my home permanently? 
No, we only offer our consent to let out a property on a temporary basis, usually for up to 27 months. If you'd like to rent out your home more permanently, you'll need to apply for a Buy-to-Let mortgage instead.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/existing-customers/rent/
########Top of main content 
Make overpayments 
Find out how to make extra mortgage payments 
Overpaying your mortgage could save you money 
Making an overpayment is when you pay more than your standard monthly mortgage payment. This could mean you pay off your mortgage early and save money by reducing the interest.
Pay off your mortgage earlier 
Reduce the amount of interest payable 
Save money to put towards the things you really love 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Types of overpayments 
There are 2 ways you can make an overpayment:
Regular overpayments – overpaying by the same amount each month on an ongoing basis.
Lump sum overpayment – making a one-off payment.
There's no limit to the number or value of overpayments you can make, but some charges may apply depending on the type of your mortgage. Overpayments made to your mortgage will be applied to your account the same day they’re made. These are permanent transactions that can’t be refunded.
To make an overpayment, first you just need to check what type of mortgage you have. 
Fixed-rate mortgage overpayments 
If you have a fixed-rate mortgage, you'll have an annual overpayment allowance (AOA), which is the amount you can overpay each year without incurring any charges. 
Your AOA is equivalent to 10% of the outstanding balance of your mortgage. It will reset annually, either on the date your mortgage account was opened, or on the start date of your fixed-rate period if you've previously switched mortgage rates. So, if you’ve made payments to reduce your mortgage balance, your 10% allowance will stay the same, but your balance will reduce the following year. 
As long as you don't exceed your annual overpayment allowance in a year during the fixed-rate period, you can make as many overpayments as you like either through a lump sum, or increasing your standard monthly payments.
Anything over 10% will incur an early repayment charge (ERC).
What's the ERC?
The ERC is calculated as 1% of the amount repaid early, above any annual overpayment allowance, for each remaining year of the period during which the ERC applies, reducing on a daily basis.
However, if you're on a 10-year fixed rate product, the ERC is capped at 5%. That means if you're in years 1 to 5 of that product and you repay early, the ERC will be no more than 5% of the amount repaid early above any annual overpayment allowance.
	
Tracker mortgage overpayments 
If you have a tracker mortgage, you can make unlimited overpayments without an early repayment charge.
Want to see what difference an overpayment could make?
Try our overpayment calculator 
If the interest rate changes 
What happens to your monthly payments? 
If there's a change to your mortgage interest rate, your standard monthly payment will be recalculated on the balance outstanding over the remaining term of the mortgage.
What happens to your overpayment? 
If you cancel a regular overpayment that's paid through Direct Debit each month, the standard monthly payment will be recalculated on the balance outstanding over the remainder of the original term. You'll need to review any regular overpayments to make sure they're still suitable for you.
If you’ve made a lump sum overpayment, we won’t recalculate your standard monthly payment automatically. That means the amount won't change unless there is a change in the interest rate. If you'd like to reduce your standard monthly payment to take account of any overpayment, you’ll need to contact us.
Find out more about base rate changes and your mortgage 
Make an overpayment online 
Log on to view your annual overpayment allowance, then just select your mortgage account and then ‘Overpayment details’.
To make regular overpayments 
If you’d like to make regular overpayments, there are 2 ways to do this:
Adjust your monthly Direct Debit by calling us or contacting us via Web Chat. The Web Chat is only available from 8am to 6pm Monday to Friday. It can take up to 7 working days to change your Direct Debit.
Set up a regular standing order and make a monthly payment to your mortgage account number and sort code.
To transfer a lump sum 
To transfer a lump sum to your mortgage account, just go to ‘Pay and transfer’ in the app or online banking. If it's coming from another bank, you’ll need to make a payment to your mortgage sort code and account number. You can find these on any mortgage document or letter from us.
If you make an overpayment after 23:45, this will be processed the next working day. So, if you’re on the last day of your annual overpayment allowance, we'll take it from next year's allowance.
Log on to make an overpayment Log on to make an overpayment This link will open in a new window 
View our rates for HSBC mortgage customers 
Make an overpayment by phone 
If you'd like support from our expert mortgage team, you can give us a call to make an overpayment on:
0800 169 6333
Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Frequently Asked Questions
How do I view my annual overpayment allowance (AOA)? 
Your AOA changes each year of your fixed-rate period. To find out what your current overpayment allowance is, log on to your online banking and select your mortgage account, then choose ‘Overpayment details’. If you don't have access to online banking you'll need to give us a call.
If you have a tracker or variable rate, there are no limits or charges for making overpayments.
Are my monthly overpayments affected by the Bank of England base rate? 
If you’re on a fixed-rate, there'll be no change to your payments.
If you’re on a tracker mortgage and your overpayment is made via the same Direct Debit as your standard monthly payment, there may be an impact on your payments.
If your Direct Debit is set to a 'Total' amount each month and ther\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/existing-customers/overpay/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage term calculator 
This calculator works in two ways. If you're thinking about extending your mortgage term, it can give you an indication of how much your new monthly payments could be. Alternatively, if you're thinking of reducing your mortgage term, it can calculate what your monthly payments could change to. 
Before you get started 
Extending your term 
Extending the term of your mortgage means that you’ll pay back your mortgage over a longer period of time. Use the calculator to get an indication of how this will affect your mortgage.
Reducing your term 
If you only need to extend your term temporarily, you’ll have the option to change it back again without having to make a further application, meaning no additional affordability checks.
Use the calculator to get an indication of how this will affect your mortgage.
Remember, you must apply to reduce your term within 6 months of extending it.
Things to consider 
If you have more than one mortgage account, you’ll need to input the figures for each account.
Reduce your term: example 
Let's assume you had a mortgage term of 25 years in June 2023. You then extended it under the Charter to 30 years. Then in December 2023, you opted to reverse that extension in part or in full. The shortest term you could choose would be 24 years and 6 months. The longest term you could choose would be 29 years and 6 months. You could also choose any other term between the shortest and the longest.
Further term extension or reduction 
If you're looking to extend your term beyond your planned retirement age (or age 70 if sooner), or if you are looking to reduce your term to shorter than the Charter allows you, you'll need to submit a new application. This will require a credit check and affordability assessment. You can do this online or calling us on 0800 169 6333.
Our main information page has more on the Mortgage Charter, along with details of all the options available and how to apply for them.
Calculate your possible new monthly payments 
you can get the information you need to use the calculator by logging on to online banking
the calculator assumes the interest rate will change to the current Standard Variable Rate for the remaining term left on your mortgage, after your current interest rate ends
if you have a lifetime tracker or homebuyer variable rate add the same term in the 'Remaining mortgage term in years / months' and 'Remaining years / months on your current interest rate' fields.
The information provided by this calculator is a guide and should only be used for indicative purposes.
Calculate your possible new monthly payments
Find out how changing your mortgage term could affect your monthly payments.
Amount of mortgage outstanding
Enter the remaining balance of your mortgage
GBP
0
Current interest rate
Enter the interest rate you're paying on your mortgage
%
0.00
Remaining mortgage term in years
Enter the number of years left on your mortgage
Remaining mortgage term in months
If you also have remaining months, enter the number (between 1 and 11)
Remaining years on your current interest rate
Enter the number of years left on your current interest rate
Remaining months on your current interest rate
If you also have remaining months, enter the number (1 and 11)
Proposed new mortgage term in years
Enter the number of years between 0 and 40 you want to pay the mortgage over
Proposed new mortgage term in months
If your new term also includes months, enter the number of months between 1 and 11
Summary
Current monthly payment
---
Current total amount to be repaid
---
New monthly payment
---
Difference in monthly payment
---
New total amount to be repaid
---
Difference in total amount to be repaid
---
Disclaimer: Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/temporary-term-extension-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Temporary interest-only mortgage calculator 
This calculator can give an indication of your future monthly payments if you're considering a temporary 6-month interest-only period. 
Before you get started 
Information you'll need 
The calculator asks for your outstanding balance, interest rate, the term that's left on your mortgage, and the remaining time left on your current interest rate. You can find these by logging on to online banking.
The calculator assumes the interest rate will change to the current Standard Variable Rate, for the remaining term left on your mortgage, after your current interest rate ends.
If you have a lifetime tracker or Home Buyer Variable rate, please input the same term in the 'Remaining mortgage term in years' and 'Remaining years on your current interest rate' fields.
If you have more than one loan part, you'll need to use the calculator for each loan part.
Our main information page has more on the Mortgage Charter, along with details of all the options available and how to apply for them.
The information provided by this calculator is a guide and should be used for indicative purposes only.
Calculate your monthly interest-only mortgage payments
Use the calculator to give an indication of your future monthly payments.
Amount of mortgage outstanding
Enter the remaining balance of your mortgage
GBP
0
Mortgage term in years
Enter the number of years left on your mortgage
Mortgage term in months
If you also have remaining months, enter the number (between 1 and 11)
Current interest rate
Enter the interest rate you're paying on your mortgage
%
0.00
Remaining years on your current interest rate
Enter the number of years left on your current interest rate
Remaining months at your current interest rate
If you also have remaining months, enter the number (1 and 11)
Summary
Current monthly payment
---
Current total amount to be repaid
---
New monthly payment during interest-only period
---
New monthly payment after interest-only period
---
New total amount to be repaid
---
Difference in total amount to be repaid
---
Disclaimer: Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage. 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/temporary-interest-only-calculator/
########Top of main content 
Using your card 
Make the most of your card inside and outside the UK 
Make the most of your card in the UK 
Paying for goods in shops and restaurants 
Enjoy the convenience of using your debit or credit card in any outlet displaying the logo on your card (i.e. VISA or MasterCard).
Confirming online card purchases 
We provide an extra layer of security when you shop online with your HSBC UK debit card and credit card, using the VISA Secure or Mastercard Identity Check service. It's free and you don't need to register.
When you buy something online with your HSBC UK debit or credit card, you may be asked to confirm the payment so that we can check it's really you and not a fraudster.
From June 2021, you may be asked to confirm online card payments more often, and we're bringing in new ways for you to do this. To find out more about these changes, see confirming online card purchases.
Cash withdrawals 
If you have a debit card, you can withdraw money from any HSBC cash machine with no transaction fee. Your daily cash withdrawal limit depends on the type of current account you hold and whether you've asked for the limit to be reduced. The standard daily limits are:
£300 for HSBC Bank Account and HSBC Basic Bank Account
£500 for HSBC Advance
£1,000 for HSBC Premier and HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits)
£1,000 for HSBC Private Banking Account customers
Please note: we charge a cash advance fee for credit card withdrawals. Also, unlike with purchases, we charge interest on cash withdrawals with a credit card. This is from the date when the transaction is applied to your account until the date payment is received. See more about credit card fees.
Some non-HSBC cash machines may charge you a transaction fee. This will be shown on screen when you make the withdrawal. Also, cash withdrawal limits will apply.
To find your nearest free-to-use cash machine, use the Cash Locator tool found at www.link.co.uk/consumers/locatorwww.link.co.uk/consumers/locator This link will open in a new window. Simply enter the town or postcode and it will show you the nearest cash machines and places that provide cash withdrawals. The tool will also tell you if it's free or if there’s a charge.
As with all payments and withdrawals, this is subject to you having enough money available in your account.
Some shops, supermarkets and other retailers offer a cashback service when you buy things with a debit card. In some shops, you don’t even need to buy anything. Just ask at the till to withdraw any amount from 1p to £50. You can get the amount in coins or notes.
To find out which shops let you take out cash at their till, use the Cash Locator tool found at www.link.co.uk/consumers/locatorwww.link.co.uk/consumers/locator This link will open in a new window and look for the orange symbol. This tells you that the service is free.
Make the most of your card outside the UK 
Paying for goods in shops and restaurants 
Enjoy the convenience of using your HSBC debit or credit card in any outlet that displays the logo on your card. Fees apply. See more about debit card fees and credit card fees. 
Withdrawing local currency 
Whether you're away on business or on holiday, you can use your debit or credit card at cash machines outside the UK whenever you need extra currency. Please note that fees apply and non-HSBC cash machines may also charge you a fee. 
Cash machine locator 
Find out where you can use your Visa debit or credit card outside the UKuse your Visa debit or credit card outside the UK ATM locator This link will open in a new window.
Non-sterling transactions 
We've made some changes to how we present non-sterling transactions on statements. Find out moreFind out more about making non-sterling transactions This link will open in a new window.
Contactless debit and credit card 
Make low-value payments with just the tap of your card 
You can use your contactless debit and credit card to make payments up to £100 at any retailer that accepts contactless. Just look for the contactless logo.
You can use your contactless card abroad just as you can in the UK. Contactless transactions will be accepted wherever the contactless symbol is displayed. Please be aware that the contactless transaction limit of £100 may vary depending on local limits (may be more or less).
No need to carry cash around 
Rather than search for loose change, simply tap your card at retailers to pay for coffee, newspapers, sandwiches and all manner of low-value items at participating retailers.
Find out more information on contactless and where to use it.
Contactless with TFL 
London's public transport network accepts contactless payment cards. This means you can use your contactless card to pay for single fare journeys.
However if your card is new then you will need to have made at least one transaction with Chip and PIN/Signature to enable the contactless functionality on your card.
For details about how it works, charges, fare capping and more, please visit www.tfl.gov.ukwww.tfl.gov.uk This link will open in a new window.
Useful security information 
Read how we can work together to keep your HSBC card safe, including:
protecting your card and PIN
covering your PIN when you enter it to stop others seeing it
never divulging your PIN to anyone, even if they claim to be police or HSBC staff
checking statements and query transactions you don't recognise
Find out more about card security Find out more about card security Find out more about card security 
Foreign usage fees 
Debit card fees and credit card fees outside the UK 
Debit card fees outside the UK 
Purchases
Withdrawals
More
information
HSBC Premier Account
HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits) account
HSBC Private Banking Account customers
HSBC Premier MyAccount
	Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.75%
	Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.75%
	Find out more
	
All other accounts
	Non-Sterling transaction fee 2.75%
	
Cash Fee 2% (Minimum £1.75, maximum £5.00)
Non-Sterling transaction fee \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/using-your-card/
########Top of main content 
Credit card limit increase 
Find out how to raise your current credit card limit 
Please be aware, it might take us slightly longer than usual to process requests to increase your credit card limit.
close banner 
What is a credit limit increase? 
The credit limit is the maximum amount you can borrow on a credit card. Credit card providers set a limit based on what you would ideally like it to be, and how much they think you can afford to borrow.
A credit limit increase is where you can either request, or be automatically given, a higher credit limit on your credit card.
Who can increase my credit limit? 
HSBC may offer to increase your credit card limit automatically, based on how responsibly you use your card. An automatic increase means it goes up without you having to do anything.
Alternatively, if HSBC doesn't offer an automatic increase, you can apply for an increase yourself. You'll need to fill in a short application and it will be credit assessed, like other lending applications. This will leave a hard search on your credit records and could affect your credit score.
How credit scores work 
Who can apply 
You can request to increase your credit limit with us if all of the following are true:	
you hold an HSBC credit card
you've had the card for more than 6 months
your limit hasn't been increased in the last 6 months
How to apply 
If you’re registered for mobile banking, have the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, and meet the eligibility requirements, you can apply on the app.
Steps to apply 
Log on using biometrics or your Digital Secure Key.
Select the card you want to request the limit increase for.
Tap 'View more'.
Go to 'Credit limit increase'.
Enter your new limit request and answer the questions.
Review the information displayed and select 'Confirm'.
Don’t have the app? 
Register for mobile banking 
Frequently Asked Questions 
How long does it take to get an increase? 
We provide instant decisions on applications for limit increases, in most cases, and if approved, you can start using the extra credit straight away.
Can I decrease my credit card limit? 
Yes, you can do this by logging into online banking and submitting a request.
Explore more
Should you increase your credit card limit?
Managing debt
Improve your financial fitness
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/credit-limit/
########Top of main content 
Credit card instalment plans 
Spread the cost of your larger purchases with a 0% interest plan. Monthly fees apply. 
What are credit card instalment plans? 
Instalment plans are a simple way of spreading the cost of larger purchases, by repaying in regular instalments over a period that you choose. 
We won't charge you any interest on an instalment plan, just a monthly fee. The amount of the instalment and fee will depend on:
how much you want to repay on the plan
how long you want the plan for
And remember, it'll be the same amount for each month you have the plan.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
Can everyone get an instalment plan? 
No, but we’ll check from time to time to see if you’re eligible to set one up. If you have an offer available, we’ll let you know in the HSBC Mobile Banking app, or we’ll email you.
You can check by logging on to the app and selecting your credit card account from the list. If you have an offer available, you'll see an option for ‘Instalments’.
You can then choose to repay over a period that suits you - either 3, 6 or 12 months.
Remember that any instalment plan offer will only be available for a limited time.
How a credit card instalment plan could help you 
Spread the cost with fixed monthly repayments 
0% interest - instead, you'll pay a set monthly fee 
You could pay less overall than you would without a plan 
Choose up to 6 plans at one time 
Personalise your plan to suit your needs 
No hidden fees even if you choose to repay early or cancel your plan 
You're also still covered by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. This protects you if you've paid for something between £100 and £30,000 with a credit card.
See frequently asked questions to find out more 
Set up an instalment plan 
Check the credit card section on the mobile banking app to see if you have an instalment plan offer. Device restrictions apply.
Spend at least £100 on your HSBC credit card
Set up a personalised instalment plan in the app by your next statement date
Download the app 
Find out more about how instalment plans work 
Frequently asked questions 
Will it affect my minimum monthly payment? 
No – we’ll work out your minimum monthly payment in the usual way, but we’ll also show the monthly instalment and the fee for your plan on your statement.
You don’t have to pay the monthly instalment and fee by the due date on your statement (as long as you make at least your minimum payment), but your plan will be cancelled if you don’t for 2 months in a row.
If I have a Direct Debit set up, will HSBC collect my instalment plan payments? 
Yes - if you ask us to when you set up your instalment plan.
Once you've asked us to collect your instalment plan payments by Direct Debit, we'll do that for future instalment plans too. 
If you usually make your minimum payment by Direct Debit, this means we’ll collect your monthly instalment and fee at the same time. We call this the ‘minimum plus instalment plan payment’, and you’ll see it on your monthly statement.
If your Direct Debit is for a fixed amount, you can ask us to collect your minimum plus instalment plan payment if it’s higher than the fixed amount.
If you usually pay your full balance each month, we’ll collect your monthly instalment and fee – but not the rest of the amount you owe on the plan. That’s so you can repay the plan over the time we’ve agreed.
You’ll always be able to see how much we’ll collect, and when, on your monthly statement.
Can I repay early or cancel an instalment plan? 
Yes – you can cancel the plan at any time and for any reason. Just tell us by sending a Chat message in the app.

After the plan is cancelled, the amount you still owe on the plan will move back to your main transaction balance. That means we’ll stop charging instalment plan fees and go back to charging interest at your standard purchase rate. If it’s part way through a month, we’ll refund part of the instalment plan fee - so it’s only charged for the time you’ve had the plan.

You can repay your instalment plan early by paying more than your monthly instalment. But if you owe any other amount on your account, the extra will be used to pay that off first.

We’ll only charge instalment plan fees for the time you have the plan. 
	
Will I still get an interest-free period on any new purchases? 
Yes – we won’t charge interest on any purchases shown in a statement if you pay your transaction balance by the payment due date. Your transaction balance is the amount you owe excluding any instalment plan.
When you have an instalment plan, you’ll also need to pay that month’s instalment and fee. 
What happens if I don’t make an instalment plan payment? 
You don’t have to pay the monthly instalment and fee by the due date on your statement, as long as you make at least your minimum payment. This could help you avoid a late payment fee or impact to your credit file.

If you don’t make your instalment plan payment one month, that amount will move back to your main transaction balance. That means interest will be charged at the standard rate. The next month, you’ll need to pay the amount you’ve missed plus that month’s instalment and fee to keep the plan on your account – otherwise we’ll cancel it. 
How will my payments be allocated? 
When you make a payment, we’ll apply it in this order: 
To your minimum monthly payment
To your monthly instalment and fee
To the rest of the amount you owe, excluding your instalment plan
To any instalment plan balance that’s left

This means that, depending on how you’ve used your card and how much you pay i\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/instalments/
########Top of main content 
How to transfer a credit card balance 
Information for existing HSBC credit card customers 
What is a balance transfer? 
A balance transfer is when you move the balance from one credit card to another, usually to take advantage of a lower interest rate or interest-free period. This can help you to pay off your credit card balances in a more manageable way, at a lower rate and with one monthly payment.
If you have a balance transfer offer from HSBC, we may charge a balance transfer fee (minimum £5) on each balance transferred from another card. The actual amount of this fee depends on your offer and transfer amount. It will be added to your statement balance. The minimum amount you can transfer is £100.
How a balance transfer could help you 
Manage all your card balances in one easy place 
Save on how much interest you pay each month 
Pay off as much as you can during any promotional periods to pay less interest 
How you'll know you can do a balance transfer 
We’ll send you details of any offers. You can also check for any offers and request a balance transfer by logging on to your HSBC UK Mobile Banking app11 view footnote 1 or by calling us on 03457 404 404.22 view footnote 2
How to request a balance transfer 
Check what offers are available to you and request a balance transfer on our latest mobile app11 view footnote 1.
Log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app and select your credit card.
Go to ‘View more’.
Select ‘Balance transfers’ to see what offers you have available to you.
Follow the instructions on the screen.
Review the information displayed and select ‘Confirm’.
To make sure you select the correct card issuer in the app, you can use the search tool or just scroll down the list until you find the correct card type (for example, Visa or Mastercard). If there are several to choose from, select the option which matches the first few digits of your card number.
Don’t have the app? 
You can request a balance transfer through Online BankingOnline Banking This link will open in a new window or the Contact Centre as well.
What's needed to complete a balance transfer 
You'll need both cards so that you can provide details, including the long 16-digit number on each card.
Can't see your balance transfer on the app? 
If you've made a request but can't see it on the app straight away, please don't send it again. Your balance transfer won't show until the next working day.
If you make the same request more than once, you could end up with more than one balance transfer.
Important information 
How do balance transfer offers work? 
You can transfer balances to your HSBC credit card account when you have an offer available. When there’s an offer, we’ll tell you the promotional rate and how long it will apply for from the date of transfer. You can take advantage of the rate by making a balance transfer during the offer period. Because we assess eligibility for offers periodically, you could get the same offer more than once (sometimes consecutively), or the promotional rate, term or fee could vary.
Is there a fee? 
There’s normally a balance transfer fee for each balance transferred. This fee depends on your offer and transfer amount. We’ll tell you the fee that applies before you submit your request and the fee will be added to your statement balance.
How much can be transferred? 
The minimum amount you can transfer is £100. You can make as many balance transfers as you’d like when you’ve an offer, up to 95% of your credit limit (taking your existing balance into account).
	
Which cards can you transfer from? 
You can transfer balances from most other cards, as long as you’re the primary cardholder. This excludes other HSBC Group cards from HSBC UK, first direct and M&S Bank.
How long does it take? 
If we approve your request, payment will reach your other card provider by the end of the next working day. You’ll need to keep making payments towards your other card until the transfer’s gone through.
If we receive your request after 15.30 or on a non-working day, we’ll treat it as if it was received on the next working day. We might need to carry out additional checks, for example to make sure the request is really from you, in which case we’ll treat your request as being made once we’ve completed those checks.
How will your payments be allocated when you have a balance transfer on your account? 
If you have other balances on which we’re charging higher rates of interest, any payments you make will be applied to those first. If you have more than one promotional balance on the same rate (for example, you have two balance transfers on a 0% rate), we’ll apply your payment to the oldest first.
Will you pay interest on any new purchases? 
Interest will be charged on new purchases at your standard variable rate (you won’t get up to 56 days interest free until you’ve fully repaid any balance transfers).
How will you know when your promotional period is coming to an end? 
We’ll send you a reminder and let you know on your monthly statement before your promotional period ends. You can also see details of your existing balance transfers, including the promotional rates and periods that apply, in the mobile banking app.
What happens at the end of your promotional period? 
Any transferred balance remaining on your account will be charged at your standard variable rate, so it’s best to pay off your balance transfer during the promotional period if you can. You’ll also lose your promotional rate and interest will be charged at the standard rate if you’re late making at least your minimum payment in any month – so it’s important to make payments on time.
Additional information 
1. Device restrictions apply
2. Lines are open every day, from 08:00 to 20:00.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will op\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/transferring-a-credit-card-balance/
########Top of main content 
Credit card protection 
In some ways, online shopping is safer with a credit card because it gives you more protection than a debit card. 
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, if you use a credit card for purchases between £100-£30,000:
your purchases are protected 
your card issuer will help you get your money back if your seller doesn't deliver your goods or goes bankrupt 
there are checks to make sure it’s actually you using the card 
But you still need to take care – so make sure you don't give your credit card details to anyone you don’t trust. 
Explore: How to shop safely online
Credit card security code 
Every credit card has a unique 3-digit card security code printed on it. It can also be called a CVV code – card verification value. This provides extra protection against fraud when you buy things online or over the phone. 
The only place it appears is directly on the physical card – usually on, or near the signature strip. So, when a retailer asks for your security code – they’re essentially asking for proof you have the card in your possession.
How to prevent credit card fraud 
Most credit card fraud can be prevented by following some simple rules.
Never give out your card details in response to unsolicited phone calls, or emails. If you need to give your banking information for an offer or prize, this should trigger alarm bells. 
If you’re buying something online, research the product and supplier. It can be a good idea to read customer reviews before you buy, and check if there have been complaints. 
Check in your web browser that the site's address starts with ‘https’ before entering any of your personal details – this means it’s a secure site. 
Sign up for verification services like Verified by Visa, or Mastercard Secure. 
If you’re using a public computer, avoid entering personal information as there may be malware that records your details. 
It’s also a good idea to check your bank statements regularly and credit report annually. Your credit report contains information about your credit history.
You can get a copy of your credit report from companies such as:
Equifax 
Experian 
TransUnion 
Explore: How to check your credit report
How do you report identity fraud? 
If you believe you’ve been the victim of credit card fraud, contact your card issuer immediately. In most cases, you’ll be able to reclaim any stolen funds.
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can report a problem here. 
Victims of identity fraud should also contact the 3 main credit rating agencies: Equifax, Experian and TransUnion. If someone has your credit card details, they may be able to apply for credit in your name. It’s possible to stop the fraud, but removing damaging credit information from your report can take time.
You should also report online credit card fraud to Action Fraud Action Fraud This link will open in a new window – the national reporting centre for fraud and cybercrime.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
How to spot phishing attacks and other financial scams 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Is digital banking secure? 
How to bank safely online 
Latest scam warnings\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/card-security-protection/
########Top of main content 
Reward points 
Information for existing HSBC rewards credit card customers 
Rewards details for your card 
Reward points can be earned and spent in different ways depending on which card you have. Select your card to find out more.
Rewards Credit Card 
How you earn reward points 
Earn up to 10 points for every £1 you spend11 view footnote 1 at selected retailers. Log on to Mastercard Pay with Rewards for a full list. Get 1 point for every £5 you spend elsewhere. 
Get 2,500 welcome points worth £25 when you make your first transaction11 view footnote 1.
Plus if you spend11 view footnote 1 £10,000+ on your card in the first year you'll get another 2,500 'anniversary' points. You can earn these anniversary points in each of the first 5 years you have your card. They're paid on the anniversary of when you opened your account. To get these anniversary points every year, you’ll need to make £10,000+ worth of eligible spending11 view footnote 1 in a 12 month period (starts from the date you opened this credit card account).
How to redeem your reward points 
After you've registered with Mastercard Pay with Rewards, you'll be able to see your points balance, view merchant offers and spend points. The easiest way to see these is on the Mastercard Pay with Rewards app.
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
1. Register
Register on the Mastercard Pay with Rewards websiteMastercard Pay with Rewards website This link will open in a new window or download the app. 
2. Log on to Mastercard Pay with Rewards
When you’d like to use your points towards a purchase, go to the Mastercard Pay with Rewards app or log on to the Mastercard Pay with Rewards websiteMastercard Pay with Rewards website This link will open in a new window.
3. Turn on 'Next purchase'
Switch on 'Next purchase' to use your points for the next thing you buy. Alternatively you can set your preferences to use points automatically as soon as you've earned them.
4. Use your card as usual
Use your card as you normally would. The cash equivalent of your points will be credited to your account, saving you money on what you’ve bought. 
See reward points FAQs for this card 
Watch our video guide to using the MasterCard Pay with Rewards app 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Premier Credit Card 
How you earn reward points 
Earn 1 point for every £1 of eligible spend11 view footnote 1 you make in sterling22 view footnote 2, and 2 points for every £1 spent in other currencies33 view footnote 3 (fees apply to non-sterling transactions). T&Cs apply (PDF, 239KB)T&Cs apply (PDF, 239KB) This link will open in a new window
How you can use your reward points 
Swap points for shopping vouchers 
You can redeem your points for vouchers for a variety of retailers such as M&S and Amazon. Even better, these are e-vouchers which will be delivered directly to your inbox.
T&Cs apply (PDF, 180KB)T&Cs apply (PDF, 180KB) This link will open in a new window
Convert points into airline miles 
Convert your reward points into airline miles with a wide range of airlines such as British Airways, Etihad, Asia Miles and Singapore Airlines. T&Cs apply (PDF, 222KB)T&Cs apply (PDF, 222KB) This link will open in a new window.
Exchange points for fine wines 
You can also exchange your points for a special selection of Laithwaites quality wines, delivered direct to your home or office. Find out moreFind out more about exchanging points for fine wines.
Donate points to One Tree Planted 
You can use your points to donate to One Tree Planted to help with global reforestation. Every 1,500 points is worth £5 of vital support.
Turn points into hotel stays 
You can turn your reward points into hotel loyalty points which you can spend at selected hotels. T&Cs apply (PDF, 222KBT&Cs apply (PDF, 222KB This link will open in a new window.
How to redeem your reward points 
Swap points online for shopping vouchers
Log on to online banking.
Select 'Premier card' within the 'My accounts' section.
Select ‘Total points balance’.
On the loyalty portal, select ‘Spend your points’.
Select ‘Shopping vouchers’ to choose the shopping voucher and value you’d like to receive.
You’ll receive your e-voucher directly to your inbox.
Exchange points for wine
Browse the Laithwaites rangeBrowse the Laithwaites range This link will open in a new window
Call Laithwaites on 03330 148 174 and quote the first 6 digits of your card number to order.
Lines are open weekdays 08:30 to 19:30, Saturdays 09:00 to 18:00 and Sundays 10:00 to 16:00.
How to convert points into airmiles
Log on to HSBC Online Banking.
Select 'Premier card' within the 'My accounts' section.
Select ‘Total points balance’.
On the loyalty portal, select ‘Spend your points’.
Select ‘Airline miles’ to choose the airline and the number of miles you'd like to receive.
You’ll also need to include your airline programme number to submit your request.
How to donate points to One Tree Planted
Log on to online banking.
Select 'Premier card' within the 'My accounts' section.
Select ‘Total points balance’.
On the loyalty portal, select ‘Spend your points’.
Select ‘Tree planting’ and choose the value of the donation you’d like to make.
Turn points into hotel stays
Log on to online banking.
Select ‘Premier card’ within the ‘My accounts’ section.
Select ‘Total points balance’.
On the loyalty portal, select ‘Spend your points’.
Select ‘Hotels’ to choose the hotel and the number of hotel loyalty points you'd like to receive.
You’ll also need to include your hotel loyalty programme number to submit your request\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/rewards/
########Top of main content 
Short and long term illness 
We understand that being diagnosed with any illness affects many aspects of your life. We’re here to try to make sure that managing your money isn’t an added stress during these difficult times.
Mobile Banking 
You can use our app anytime without having to call us. The app lets you manage your account securely from your smartphone. You can use the app for -
Checking your balance
Making payments to existing payees
Transferring money between your HSBC personal accounts
Use Live Chat to speak to an advisor if you don’t feel like phoning
Find out more about Mobile Banking
Online Banking 
As well as being able to manage your account online, we have a LiveChat service which allows you to speak to an advisor without having to call. You can also log on to Online Banking and send us a secure message at any time if you have any questions.
Branch Banking 
We can arrange longer appointments and offer private rooms if you’d like to speak to someone face to face. You’re welcome to ask a family member or friend to come with you when you visit the branch. If you’d like to do this, please tell a member of staff when you’re making your appointment. There are no forms to fill in – you just have to let us know you’re happy for them to accompany you.
If you apply for a new product with us you can take your paperwork home to read over before you commit to signing. There’s no pressure to do it there and then.
Appointing someone to look after your accounts 
If you feel it’s too much to manage your account, you can empower someone to act on your behalf with your banking. You can either obtain a Power of Attorney, which we can apply this to your account or we can arrange to set up a Third Party mandate for you. There’s more information about options for having someone manage your account here.
Talk to Us 
When you’re ready to speak to us, you can call one of our advisors. Our main Telephone Banking number is 03457 404404 we can help with a range of enquiries on this line. You can choose not to go through the automated system by pressing 9 when you’re asked to enter your account details. If you need to speak to a specific team, check our Directory for a full list of contacts.
Where to go for help 
Your GP is the best person to speak to and support your health needs, but there’s also a range of organisations that can help you when you’re diagnosed with a long term illness. We’ve added some links for a few of these that you may wish to contact.
Citizen’s Advice Bureau
England 03444 111 444
Scotland 0345 404 0506
Wales 0344 477 2020
Northern Ireland 0300 123 3233
www.citizensadvice.org.ukwww.citizensadvice.org.uk This link will open in a new window
Macmillan
Telephone 0808 808 0000
www.macmillan.org.uk/moneyworrieswww.macmillan.org.uk/moneyworries This link will open in a new window
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/health-accessibility/long-term-illness/
########Top of main content 
HSBC Expat 
Banking that supports your international lifestyle 
A bank account that moves with you 
For people who live and work around the world, an offshore bank account with HSBC Expat provides a central place to hold your money. It connects you to your home country and to your local accounts for everyday banking.
Manage your finances in one place 
No matter how many times you move, your Expat account stays with you. While you travel the world, your account will be held in Jersey, Channel Islands - a secure offshore jurisdiction and leading international finance centre.
Log on once to view and manage all your finances around the world in mobile, online or telephone banking 
Make quick and easy payments across borders with an HSBC Expat Global Money Account 
Take care of your banking, FX or investments (T&Cs apply) wherever you are 
Experience an award-winning service 
Wherever you are, HSBC Expat helps you get set up and offers support 24/7.
Stay connected to your finances globally 
Get travel security services 
Enjoy dedicated support from a Relationship Manager if you're an HSBC Expat Premier customer11 view footnote 1 
Get started with HSBC Expat 
Am I eligible? 
To join HSBC Expat you must be over 18, resident of an eligible country or region11 view footnote 1, and meet one of these criteria:
Save or invest at least £50,000 (or currency equivalent) with HSBC Expat within 3 months of opening your account, or​
Have a salary of at least £100,000 (or currency equivalent), or​
Already be an HSBC Premier customer in another country or region
Visit HSBC Expat Visit HSBC Expat This link will open in a new window 
HSBC Expat is a division of HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch: HSBC House, Esplanade, St. Helier, Jersey, JE1 1HS. HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission for Banking, General Insurance Mediation, Investment and Fund Services Business. HSBC Bank plc is registered and incorporated in England and Wales with limited liability, number 14259. Registered office: 8 Canada Square, London, E14 5HQ.
Deposits and investments made with non-UK members of the group do not benefit from the protection provided under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000, including the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
HSBC Expat is a participant in the Jersey Bank Depositors Compensation Scheme. The Scheme offers protection for eligible deposits of up to £50,000. The maximum total amount of compensation is capped at £100,000,000 in any 5 year period. Full details of the Scheme and banking groups covered are available on the States of Jersey website www.gov.je/dcswww.gov.je/dcs This link will open in a new window, or on request.
Not the right account? 
HSBC Expat account is a single account that moves with you. If you don't meet the eligibility criteria, or want to open an additional account in a different country or region, we could help you open an international account.
How to open an account overseas 
You might also be interested in
Buying property in the UK
Here are the top 5 things to know before you settle in your new home away from home.
HSBC Currency Account
Send, store and receive up to 14 foreign currencies easily with our multi-currency holding account.
Expat explorer guides
This link will open in a new window 
Discover our collection of country and region guides to get to know your new destination a little better.
1. For a full list of eligible countries and regions, visit HSBC ExpatHSBC Expat This link will open in a new window. HSBC Expat products and services are available only in jurisdictions where and when they may be lawfully offered by HSBC Expat. Not all products or services mentioned on this website will be available to residents of all countries/territories, due to HSBC Policy.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/expat/
########Top of main content 
Setting up your finances outside the UK 
In the lead-up to moving outside the UK, you'll need to think about how you'll manage your money once you arrive. 
Whether you’re moving to Paris, Beijing or Sydney, there are some steps you can take to get set up before you land.
Open an account before you arrive 
You may be able to set up a bank account before you arrive. This can be either:
an international account that gives you access to multiple currencies 
a bank account which you can apply for online 
Having an account set up means you can transfer money across straight away, so it’s ready when you arrive.
You can get more handy tips from our checklist for moving outside the UK.
Work out the best way to transfer 
The best way for you to move your money may depend on how much and how often you'll need to transfer. 
An international account will give you access to money in different currencies whenever you need.
With HSBC, you can make international money transfers 24/7. You can send money online or on the app, so you can use the service wherever you are. You can either:
make ad hoc payments as and when needed 
transfer a set amount at a set time and at regular intervals 
There’s a charge of £5 for sending:
euros outside the EEA 
any other currency in or outside the UK 
If sending euro to euro in the EEA there’s no charge. This applies to transfers made online, in a branch or over the phone. 
You may also be able to link your global accounts with some international banks. For example, with HSBC Global View and Global Transfers, you can send money without a fee and also see your international accounts in one place. 
HSBC also has a Global Money Account Global Money Account This link will open in a new window which allows you to hold and convert money in multiple currencies. You can then manage, spend and send foreign currencies globally, at competitive exchange rates and with no HSBC fees. Other non-HSBC fees may apply.
You'll need the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app to open a Global Money Account. You must also have an eligible sole or joint HSBC UK current account in your own name. Some accounts may be excluded, such as HSBC Amanah.
Explore: Sending money to the UK
Consider what you need 
Before you leave, are there changes you want to make to your finances? Perhaps there's a credit card or bank account you don’t need. 
Once you arrive, think about what you’ll need in your new home. Remember, not all financial products will work the same in different countries and regions. Before signing up to anything make sure you’ve done your research.
Sort out your pension and tax 
Two of the bigger things to think about will be your pension and tax. You must tell HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) if you’re either going to be:
living outside the UK permanently 
working outside the UK full-time for at least 1 full tax year 
If you're going to work outside the UK, you may have to make contributions towards a pension. How do you want this to work with the pension you currently have? This is likely to be something that depends on your longer-term plans. It doesn’t have to be sorted out straight away, but it’s worth being aware of. Make sure you update your UK pension and investment providers with your new address. This includes any former workplace pension schemes.
Back to top 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Checklist for moving outside the UK 
Buying a property abroad 
Sending money outside the UK: key words and definitions\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/setting-up-your-finances-abroad/
########Top of main content 
Living with dementia 
We're proud to have worked in partnership with Alzheimer's Society and Alzheimer Scotland. Together we've built stronger, dementia-friendly communities and are making HSBC a dementia-friendly business.
We want our customers to be able to bank in the way that makes them most comfortable. That's why many of our staff are Dementia Friends, meaning they're trained to support those impacted by dementia.
Helpful ways to manage your finances 
For help with your finances view our guideguide This link will open in a new window and FAQs below.
Independence service 
We know that even when it becomes difficult to manage your finances, it can be hard to give up all control of your finances and rely completely on someone else. We can help by offering our Independence Service.
This service enables you to maintain a level of financial independence to go about day to day tasks such as food shopping and paying bills, but you and your legal third party can have peace of mind as they will retain control of your financial arrangements with us. 

Regular payments 
Standing orders and Direct Debits can be a useful way to make regular payments, helping to make sure that they are on time and made for the correct amount. You can set up Direct Debits with the companies you want to pay by contacting them directly. If you have the account details for who you want to pay, you can set up Standing Orders through Telephone or Online Banking if you’re registered or alternatively, by a paper mandate. 
Statements 
Your statements are a good way to keep track of your money and spending. You can access these online or have them posted to your address. You can nominate a family member or close friend to be sent an additional copy of your statements, or receive them on your behalf. If you’d like to make any changes to how you receive your statements please let us know.
Set a limit for the amount you can withdraw 
You can reduce the amount you can withdraw each day from a cash machine by setting a limit. This may help you to manage your money and budget your spending. We can do this for you in branch or over the telephone. All you need to do is decide what amount would suit you and ask one of our team to make the change.
Telephone Banking – Voice ID 
We’ve made it easier for you to contact us over the telephone by using voice recognition ID. Voice ID makes telephone banking easier and safer. Your voice acts as your password by repeating a small phrase – don’t worry about remembering it – we’ll tell you what to say each time. Just call us on 03457 404404 and we will help you get set up.
Remembering your PIN 
You can view your debit and credit card PIN on our mobile app, instructions on how to do this can be found on our PIN services page.
You can change your PIN on your HSBC debit/credit card at any of our cash machines. Just insert your card, select ‘PIN Services’ and follow the on-screen instructions. Alternatively, you can also request a Chip and Signature card.
Chip & Signature Cards 
Chip and signature cards can be useful if you have difficulty remembering your PIN. You simply provide your signature to make your payment instead of entering a PIN. Please note that Chip and signature cards will not work in cash machines. If you’d like to find out more about Chip and Signature cards, please speak to us.
Contactless cards 
HSBC contactless debit cards work at card machines throughout the UK, allowing you to pay for anything under £100 with a simple tap. The payments are safe and secure, and there is usually no need to enter your PIN. For extra security you will occasionally be asked to enter your PIN or sign for a transaction. If you’d like to find out more about contactless cards, please speak to us.
Appointing someone to look after your accounts 
If you feel it’s too much to manage your account, you can empower someone to act on your behalf with your banking. Once you obtain a Power of Attorney, we can apply this to your account or we can arrange to set up a Third Party mandate for you. See more detail on the options for getting someone to manage your account.
Fraud protection 
Even though HSBC has market-leading fraud detection systems, we want you to be aware of the ways you can help protect yourself from fraud.
Please be aware of people asking you for your personal or financial information. Even if they are claiming to be from the bank, police or another trusted organisation. Take the time to step back and reflect. Remember, HSBC will never ask you for your PIN or full banking password.
Never disclose security details, such as your PIN or full banking password.
Don’t assume an email, phone call or text is authentic – if in doubt contact the organisation on a known number, ideally using another phone. Be especially cautious if you’ve been told not to tell family and friends.
Don’t be rushed into making a decision.
Listen to your instincts
Stay in control.
If you think you may have been a victim of fraud, please call the number on the back of your card or visit your local branch.
If you would like any more information on fraud you can contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/health-accessibility/living-with-dementia/
########Top of main content 
Buying a property outside the UK 
If you're looking to buy a property outside the UK, it pays to do plenty of research. 
Whether you're thinking of Adelaide or Abu Dhabi, here are some things to consider before you go ahead.
Get independent advice
Protections and laws may be different
Ways to fund a property outside the UK
Get independent advice 
From tax and planning to outstanding utility bills, there's a lot to think about when buying a property outside the UK. The process for buying a property may be quite different. Your mortgage provider, financial adviser or lawyer may be able to offer help. But even so you should budget more time, energy and extra money than you would for buying a home in the UK.
The Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) This link will open in a new window recommends that you get independent legal and financial advice at every stage of the buying process. It provides a list of English-speaking lawyers English-speaking lawyers This link will open in a new window and interpreters and translators interpreters and translators This link will open in a new window in different countries to help you.
Your adviser can help with more than just the paperwork involved in buying a property outside the UK. They can also give you valuable insight into the region and potential pitfalls of local ownership. You should use a lawyer who is familiar with local property law, fluent in the local language (and English), and completely independent.
Protections and laws may be different 
When you're buying property outside the UK, make sure you've got the legal protections you need. You won't be covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme so you'll be relying on the local legal system and any extra protections your lawyer may negotiate for you.
Inheritance laws may be different to the UK, so you may want to draw up a will in the country or region where you're buying a property. That means it will be inherited according to your wishes. It's also worth looking at how an inherited property may be taxed, so you can consider the longer-term impacts.
Ways to fund a property outside the UK 
There may be different options for you to fund a property outside the UK, whether it’s a holiday home, an investment or a place to retire to. 
Arrange an international mortgage 
This is a type of mortgage you take out on a property that’s not in the UK. 
If you want to use the property itself as security, you'll probably need to get a mortgage from a bank or other lender in the country you want to buy in. You could also use a specialist broker.
Buying a property outside the UK is likely to be very different to doing so at home. Non-residents may need to put down a larger deposit for a mortgage, compared to residents. 
Bear in mind the extra risks. For example, if your income is in a different currency to your international mortgage, there’s a risk that exchange rate fluctuations could affect your ability to pay. And, if you're letting the property, you’ll need to cover your mortgage payments, even if your property is empty.
Some UK banks, including HSBC, offer international banking services to help make the process easier. If eligible, you may be able to apply for an international mortgage. You’ll need to check that we support your chosen country. 
Explore: International property mortgages with HSBC International property mortgages with HSBC This link will open in a new window
Release equity from your UK home 
Home equity is the value of your property, less the amount of any outstanding loans secured on it, such as a mortgage. For example, if your mortgage balance is £100,000 and your home is worth £400,000, you have £300,000 equity in the property. 
If you can afford to, you may consider releasing equity from your UK home, and using that money to pay for a property outside the UK.
But you need to think carefully about doing this. 
When you borrow more money against your home, the size of your mortgage – and your monthly repayments – will increase. You need to make sure you can afford the repayments to avoid your UK home being repossessed. 
House prices can go down as well as up. If the value of your UK home falls, you could go into negative equity – where you’ve borrowed more money than your home is worth. A change to exchange rates could also affect the value in pounds sterling of your purchase outside the UK. 
Please note – we don’t provide equity release to buy a property outside the UK. 
Use savings to buy a property outright 
If you have the funds already, buying a property outside the UK in cash can overcome the challenges of borrowing money. It’s important that you can afford the property and have enough savings to cover expenses, such as: 
international bank transfer fees 
tax and legal fees 
translator fees 
furniture, shipping and insurance costs 
home insurance 
landlord insurance (if buying an investment property to rent out) 
ongoing costs to maintain the property 
Back to top 
What next? 
Sending money outside the UK 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a currency account? 
Checklist for moving outside the UK 
Setting up your finances outside the UK\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/buying-a-property-abroad/
########Top of main content 
How does banking work in the UK? 
From Individual Savings Accounts (ISAs) to sort codes, there may be terms that you don’t know if you’re new to banking in the UK. 
Understanding the UK banking system can help you make the most of your money and avoid any mistakes. Here’s an outline of some of the basics.
Keeping your money secure 
Most banks, building societies and credit unions in the UK are backed by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). This means that if they fail, the FSCS will automatically pay compensation up to £85,000 on an individual account and £170,000 on a joint account.
Banking services in the UK 
Most banks in the UK will offer a range of products such as:
Current account: a day-to-day account that comes with a debit card you can use to buy things. Not all cards are physical now. Some accounts offer digital cards as standard and there’s a charge to receive a physical debit card. You can have your salary paid into a current account and use it to send money to other people or pay bills. Your debit card will come with a PIN or will have a contactless feature which you can tap to make payments. You can also add your debit card to your digital wallet.
Overdraft: some current accounts allow you to spend more money than you have in your current account. You can have a set limit on what you’re allowed to spend over your account balance. This will incur interest until you pay it back.
Savings account: there are several types of savings account in the UK. There are accounts that reward you for regular saving and also ISAs. ISAs allow you to reduce the amount of tax you pay on any interest earned. Eligibility criteria apply.
Credit card: a way of borrowing money up to a certain limit, where you make regular repayments on any money you owe. If you carry a debt from month to month, you'll be charged interest on the money you owe. You’ll get a physical credit card which can be used either via contactless or PIN. You can add your credit card to your digital wallet.
Mortgage: a long-term loan where you borrow a lump sum to buy a property and make regular repayments, paying interest on the amount owed. Mortgages are secured against your property, so bear in mind, your home may be repossessed if you can't meet your payments.
Personal loan: this type of loan could be for something like buying a car or improving your home. As with a mortgage, you borrow a lump sum and make regular repayments, paying interest on the amount owed. Personal loans are usually paid off over a shorter term than a mortgage.
UK banks also offer different ways to access your accounts:
using a mobile banking app 
using online banking 
making a phone call 
going into a branch 
Acronyms and other key terms 
Beyond the different banking products, there are some different labels and names you'll see and hear.
Account number: a unique number given to your bank account.
AER: the annual equivalent rate (AER) is the way banks show the potential interest earnings on a savings account or investment product over the course of a year. AER shows what you would earn over a year if you put money into an account and kept it there.
APR: the annual percentage rate (APR) is the way lenders show the potential cost of borrowing money over a year on credit cards and loans. It takes into account interest, as well as other charges you'd have to pay such as an annual fee. This is done in a standardised way across banks to allow you to compare the cost of products from different lenders.
BIC: this stands for Business Identifier Code. It's a number that identifies your bank and is needed if you want to send or receive automated international payments. It’s also sometimes called a SWIFT code.
Cash machine: you can use cash machines to withdraw money from your current account and check your balance. They’re also known as ATMs (automated teller machines).
Direct Debit: this is used to make regular payments from your bank account to another account (such as an electricity provider). Unlike a standing order, the payee can change the amount paid by a Direct Debit, but they have to give you notice of this.
IBAN: this stands for International Bank Account Number. It identifies accounts held at any bank in any country or region. You may need it if you want to send or receive automated foreign currency payments.
National Insurance: for the 2023/2024 tax year, if you’re over 16 and earn more than £242 a week from your employer or £6,725 a year if you’re self-employed, you’ll need to pay National Insurance National Insurance This link will open in a new window (NI). This goes towards welfare benefits goes towards welfare benefits This link will open in a new window such as the State Pension, maternity pay and the Jobseeker’s Allowance.
Sort code: this is a 6-digit code that identifies your bank branch.
Standing order: a regular payment you make from your bank account. You might set up a standing order for a monthly charity donation or for other regular payments to friends and family.
Back to top Back to top of page 
What next? 
Opening a current account 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Checklist for moving outside the UK 
What you need to know about sending money to the UK 
Funding a degree in the UK\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/how-does-banking-work-in-the-uk/
########Top of main content 
Regular portfolios 
The HSBC Global Strategy Portfolios contain a mix of investments that are managed on your behalf. 
Take the hassle out of investing 
New to investing, or just looking for a more convenient way to invest? Choose an HSBC regular portfolio – a fund with a mix of investments that's managed on your behalf. Each ready-made portfolio has a different level of risk and expected reward. Just select your preferred level of risk and our team of experts will take care of the rest.
Before you invest, you should first build up some money to fall back on so that you're less likely to dip into your investment to cover for anything unexpected. This should ideally be 3-6 months of living costs.
Remember, investing has its ups and downs and – so you could get back less than you invest.
Take a closer look 
Mix of global investments 
Our portfolios contain a mix of investments from over 50 different countries, giving you access to a world of opportunities.
Managed by specialists 
Your portfolio will be managed by our investment specialists. Just choose your preferred level of risk and they'll take care of the rest. 
Easy access to your money 
We recommend you aim to invest for at least 5 years. But your money isn't locked away – you can sell your investments and the money will be in your account within 5 days.
Invest in a few steps 
You can invest here on the website or from your app. Then, track and manage your portfolio in the app, wherever you are. 
More reasons to invest 
Start investing with £50 
Invest in a portfolio with £50 and choose to set up regular payments after your first investment. 
Invest with an ISA 
Invest up to £20,000 per tax year with a stocks & shares ISA, without paying UK income or capital gains tax on any growth. 
Join other investors 
Join almost 300,000 people in the UK who are already investing with us 
Keep in mind, tax benefits will depend on your circumstances and tax rules may change in the future.
What does it cost? 
There's no cost to open a stocks & shares ISA or a general investment account. And there's no cost to withdraw money from your investments.
There will be ongoing charges for as long as you hold your investment, which we'll automatically take each quarter. For example:
Account fees: we charge an annual service fee of 0.25% for the running of your investment portfolio.
Other charges: fund managers also apply an annual management charge and other expenses. These will vary depending on the portfolio you choose.
Before investing, you can read the 'Costs and Charges' PDF for an estimate of the charges that may apply for that portfolio.
An award-winning way to invest 
Invest straight through your app 
We're delighted to be recognised with an 'Innovation in Digital Banking Award' for how we're helping our customers invest through our app. Why not try it for yourself?
Just open your app and scroll past your accounts. Then, select 'Investments' to get started.
The value of your investments can go up and down – so you could get back less than you invest.
Who can apply? 
You can invest in a regular portfolio if:
you’ve got an HSBC current account or savings account (excludes Online Bonus Saver and Fixed-rate Saver)
you’re at least 18 years old
you're a UK resident
you’re not a US national/citizen/resident (eg a US passport holder)
you've got at least £50 to invest
Need support applying? 
If you think you might need support before making an investment decision, we can help you get specialist investment support.
Ready to invest? 
Here's how to get started:
1. Decide how you feel about risk 
Select the portfolio with the risk level you're most comfortable with. Risk level 1 is the lowest and 5 is the highest. This indicates the investment's potential risk and reward.
What do we mean by 'risk level'? 
Use these descriptions to help you decide how you feel about risk. Then, choose the portfolio with the risk level that best suits you. 
Very low – you're generally ok with a very low level of potential return on your investment, along with a very low risk of investment loss.
Low – you're generally ok with a low level of potential return on your investment, along with a low risk of investment loss.
Balanced – you're generally ok with a medium level of potential return on your investment, along with a medium risk of investment loss.
High – you're generally ok with a high level of potential return on your investment, along with a high risk of investment loss.
Very High – you're generally ok with a very high level of potential return on your investment, along with a very high risk of investment loss.
2. Choose which account you'd like to apply for 
Decide which investment account you'd like to apply for – a stocks & shares ISA or a general investment account (GIA).
What's a stocks & shares ISA or a general investment account (GIA)? 
Stocks & shares ISA (Individual Savings Account) 
This is an account that you can open for your investments.
You can invest up to £20,000 each tax year without paying any UK income tax or capital gains tax on any income or growth.
You can open a stocks & shares ISA if:
you don’t already have a stocks & shares ISA for the current tax year (you can still have a cash ISA or another type of ISA)
you’ve not reached your £20,000 ISA limit for the current tax year
Keep in mind, tax rules can also change and any benefits will depend on your individual circumstances.
General investment account (GIA) 
A general investment account is a basic investment account with no tax-efficiencies. You can choose to open a GIA if:
you already have another stocks & shares ISA this tax year, or
you've reached the overall £20,000 ISA limit
this is your preferred option
Cautious
Risk level: 1 out of 5 
The Cautious fund is invested across global markets with a strong bias towards bonds.
Cautious Portfolio costs and chargesCautious Portfolio costs and charges This link will open in a new window
Cautious Portfolio factsheetCautious Portfolio fact\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/isas/hsbc-global-strategy-portfolios/
########Top of main content 
Dealing with bereavement 
Coping with bereavement can be challenging, and dealing with financial matters isn’t always straightforward. Our specialist bereavement team will support you at every step, and below you’ll find more about other support available to you.
Support we can offer
Financial fitness
Being comfortable and confident in your finances is a big part of your overall wellbeing. That’s why having a financial fitness plan is important.
Money worries
Many of us find ourselves financially stretched from time to time. Often things can get back to normal but if you don't act as soon as you know there's a real problem, your debts could get worse. That's why we're here to help you find the right solution to your individual financial difficulties.
External support and advice 
You may be entitled to receive extra help and benefits – particularly if it’s your partner who has died. The rules can be complicated but your local Jobcentre Plus office or Citizens Advice will give you all the help you need.
These links will allow you to access other websites. Please read the linked websites' terms and conditions. HSBC Bank plc has no control over non-HSBC websites and is not liable for your use of them.
Co-op Legal Services
If you need legal support following a bereavement, Co-op Legal Services can provide this. 
The Co-op Executor and Attorney HubCo-op Executor and Attorney Hub This link will open in a new window contains useful free guides on the next steps to take after a bereavement, including probate and estate administration. 
Or you can call 0330 0417 818 to speak to someone. 
HSBC are not affiliated with Co-op Legal Services, and this is not a recommendation from HSBC. Other providers of legal services are available and HSBC are not responsible for any services provided by Co-op Legal Services.
The Probate Service
Guidance specifically on dealing with probate and inheritance tax. You can also download documents on this website.
www.gov.uk/applying-for-probatewww.gov.uk/applying-for-probate This link will open in a new window
HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC)
Gives practical advice relating to managing an estate with implications such as tax, trusts and benefits.
www.gov.uk/topic/personal-tax/inheritance-taxwww.gov.uk/topic/personal-tax/inheritance-tax This link will open in a new window
GOV.UK
The official government website giving wide-ranging advice on everything from registering the death and arranging the funeral to dealing with the estate.
www.gov.uk/browse/births-deaths-marriages/deathwww.gov.uk/browse/births-deaths-marriages/death This link will open in a new window
Citizens Advice
Free legal information and advice on a wide range of topics including what to do if a will has not been made.
www.citizensadvice.org.uk/family/death-and-wills/wills/www.citizensadvice.org.uk/family/death-and-wills/wills/ This link will open in a new window
The Bereavement Register
This service can help reduce the amount of direct mail being sent to the address of a person who's died.
www.thebereavementregister.org.uk/www.thebereavementregister.org.uk/ This link will open in a new window
National Association of Funeral Directors
Association of independent funeral directors offering guidance on the process of arranging a funeral.
www.nafd.org.uk/www.nafd.org.uk/ This link will open in a new window
Department for Work and Pensions
Information and advice on a wide range of topics including benefits and grants. The DWP has a number of booklets that you may find useful: What to do after a death in England and Wales and What to do after a death in Scotland. You can find copies at all local register offices, your local Citizens Advice or local Jobcentre Plus office.
www.gov.uk/government/organisations/department-for-work-pensionswww.gov.uk/government/organisations/department-for-work-pensions This link will open in a new window
Age UK 
Information and advice about dealing with bereavement when someone dies and how to cope with grief.
www.ageuk.org.uk/information-advice/money-legal/legal-issues/what-to-do-when-someone-dieswww.ageuk.org.uk/information-advice/money-legal/legal-issues/what-to-do-when-someone-dies This link will open in a new window 
Emotional support and wellbeing
Grief is natural, but it can be challenging. There are a number of organisations who can support you when you’re dealing with the loss of a loved one.
Cruse Bereavement Care
Gives you the opportunity to understand and cope with grief and provide support to other bereaved people.
www.cruse.org.uk/www.cruse.org.uk/ This link will open in a new window
Samaritans
A completely confidential service available via email and telephone for anyone in any type of emotional distress.
www.samaritans.org/www.samaritans.org/ This link will open in a new window
Child Bereavement UK
A charity which gives information, training and specialised support to those affected when a baby or child dies.
www.childbereavementuk.org/www.childbereavementuk.org/ This link will open in a new window 
War Widows Association of Great Britain
A volunteer group aiming to improve the conditions of war widows and their dependants in Great Britain.
www.warwidows.org.uk/www.warwidows.org.uk/ This link will open in a new window
Useful information 
Bereavement support guide (PDF, 153KB) Bereavement support guide (PDF, 153KB) Download 
Bereavement advice for commercial customers 
Important steps
What to do when someone dies
FAQ and important documents
Contacting us 
Call us 
0800 085 1992
or +44 (0)114 252 0249 if you're calling from outside the UK
General enquiries 
0345 850 0088
* Lines are open 8:30am to 6pm, Monday to Friday and Saturdays 9am to 2pm (excluding public holidays).
Visit us in branch 
Find your branch 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on You\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/bereavement/help-and-support/
########Top of main content 
Bereavement FAQs and important documents 
Order of FAQs 
Documentation 
Accounts and products 
Payments and balances 
Important documents and glossary 
Glossary 
Closure Authority Form (PDF, 195KB) Closure Authority Form (PDF, 195KB) Download 
Estate form (PDF, 529 KB) Estate form (PDF, 529 KB) Download 
Additional Permitted Subscription Leaflet (PDF, 583KB) Additional Permitted Subscription Leaflet (PDF, 583KB) Download 
Additional Permitted Subscription Declaration Form (PDF, 426KB) Additional Permitted Subscription Declaration Form (PDF, 426KB) Download 
Delio â phrofedigaeth (Welsh - PDF, 1274KB) Delio â phrofedigaeth (Welsh - PDF, 1274KB) Download 
Documentation 
What happens when we are notified of a death?
What is a Personal Representative?
I am a Personal Representative, what proof of identity and address do you need from me?
What documentation do you need to close the accounts?
When do we need to see Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration?
Why do we need to see the will?
What happens if there is no will?
What happens if there is any safe keeping held?
What if the Personal Representative(s) are not based in the UK?
1. What happens when we are notified of a death? 
Once we’re notified of a death, our specialist Bereavement Support Team will contact you to explain the next steps and timescales.
We’ll inform all parts of HSBC UK who have a relationship with the deceased customer. We'll also freeze any sole accounts to stop withdrawals, but we’ll still allow money to be paid in.
For sole accounts, we’re legally obliged to cancel any standing orders or Direct Debits, including utility bills, mortgage or loan payments and home insurance. Should any of these payments need to continue, you’ll need to contact the companies concerned to arrange new payments through a different account.
Any joint accounts will convert into the name(s) of the remaining account holder(s) once we receive formal confirmation of the death. The remaining account holder(s) will be informed of this change. 
We’ll also stop any future marketing correspondence being sent out. Please note, because these are prepared several weeks in advance, you may still receive some correspondence. We try to avoid this happening, but if you do receive anything, please accept our sincere apologies.
2. What is a Personal Representative? 
The Personal Representative, is the individual who is responsible for dealing with the deceased customer’s estate. They may also be known as the executor or administrator of the estate.
Glossary of terms.
3. I am a Personal Representative, what proof of identity and address do you need from me? 
To protect you and the deceased customer’s estate from fraud and financial crime, we’ll need to verify your identity and address. To do this as quickly and easily as possible, we can complete the check electronically via Experian.
We’ll complete a soft search which will be recorded in your credit history; however, this won’t be visible to other organisations or lenders, and it won’t affect your credit score. 
We will not carry out these checks unless we have your permission.
If we’re unable to complete the electronic identity checks, we’ll request documentation to prove your identity. A list of accepted documentsA list of accepted documents This link will open in a new window.
4. What documentation do you need to close the accounts? 
Once we’ve received notification of death, we’ll let you know about any documents we may need. We’ll convert any joint accounts into sole accounts in the names of the remaining account holders once we receive formal confirmation of the death. We’ll tell the remaining account holders about this change.
For sole accounts, we’ll need:
formal confirmation of the death, such as an original or certified copy of the death certificate or coroner’s certificate. In some cases, we may be able to get this digitally without needing to see the certificate
proof of identity and address verification for the personal representatives. You can do this electronically through Experian or we’ll need to see documents. For more, see question 3, and the list of accepted documentslist of accepted documents This link will open in a new window
completed closure formcompleted closure form This link will open in a new window, the personal representative who signs the form takes responsibility to distribute the balance from the accounts of the deceased. 
In some cases, we’ll let you know if we also need to see:
an original or certified copy of the grant or probate or letters of administration
an original or certified copy of the will
We reserve the right to ask for any further documents if needed.
5. When do we need to see Grant of Probate or Letters of Administration? 
Probate is not required where all the deceased customer’s assets are held jointly with another person, and where they pass automatically to the joint owner.
Our Bereavement Support Team will ensure you are updated throughout the journey, and decisions will not be made solely on the value of the estate.
6. Why do we need to see the will? 
We may need to see the will to make sure we’re dealing with the correct Personal Representative(s) of the deceased customer.
We may close the deceased customer’s accounts without seeing the will; however, we reserve the right to ask to see the will if needed. 
7. What happens if there is no will? 
If there is no will, we must follow the Laws of Intestacy, which means we’ll only be able to deal with the legal next of kin. This will usually be the surviving spouse/civil partner, or any blood-related or adopted children.
To find out how the estate is distributed using the Laws of Intestacy, visit the government online guidancegovernment online guidance This link will open in a new window page. It has a simple online tool to help you understand who can inherit the estate.
Should the legal next of kin be unable to act please contact us for further help and guidance.
8. What happens if ther\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/bereavement/faqs/
########Top of main content 
What to do when someone dies 
What you’ll need to do first 
There are some important steps you’ll need to take when dealing with a death. Some of these are unrelated to financial matters, but you may need some of these documents when speaking to us and dealing with the estate. 
Registering the death
Locating the will
Arranging the funeral
Notifying us
Dealing with the estate
Letting other organisations know
Registering the death 
When someone dies, their death must be registered.
In England, Wales and Northern Ireland this needs to be done within 5 days. In Scotland you have 8 days.
You can do this at any register office, but if you use the one in the location where they died, they can give you the documents you’ll need on the same day. You can find your nearest register office online at www.gov.uk/register-a-deathwww.gov.uk/register-a-death This link will open in a new window, where you can find information about any local restrictions and how to make an appointment. 
Locating the will 
If the person who’s passed away had a will, locating this as soon as possible will help when dealing with their estate.
You’ll need to find the last known signed and witnessed version of the will. If you can’t find a will at their home, their solicitor, bank or financial adviser may have a copy.
A will usually names one or more executors, also known as personal representatives. They are the people who will be responsible for dealing with the estate of the deceased.
What happens if there isn’t a will?
If someone dies without making a will, or if you can’t find a signed will, they are said to have died ‘intestate’.
To find out more about what to do if there’s no will, visit the government online guidance pagegovernment online guidance page This link will open in a new window. It has a simple online tool to help you understand who can inherit the estate. 
Arranging the funeral 
Once the death has been registered, you can arrange a funeral. You may already know what sort of funeral the deceased wanted, or there may be instructions in the will or other papers.
One important decision is how much to spend. Funerals can be expensive, and may need to be paid for immediately unless a funeral plan exists.
You can find out about help you could get with paying for a funeral in our Bereavement support guideBereavement support guide This link will open in a new window.
Once we’ve received formal confirmation of the death and you've provided us with a copy of the funeral bill, we can arrange payment from the deceased's account. You can upload a copy of the funeral bill through our bereavement portalbereavement portal This link will open in a new window or by contacting our bereavement support team.
If there aren’t enough funds in the account of the deceased to cover the funeral cost, we can make a partial payment using what is available. In some cases, the Government can provide help towards the cost. To find out more and see if you’re eligible, please visit these helpful web pages: 
Government funeral payment support Government funeral payment support This link will open in a new window 
The National Association of Funeral Directors The National Association of Funeral Directors This link will open in a new window 
The National Society of Allied and Independent Funeral Directors The National Society of Allied and Independent Funeral Directors This link will open in a new window 
Notifying us 
The quickest and easiest way to notify us of a bereavement is by using our bereavement portalbereavement portal This link will open in a new window. 
You can use the portal to submit a new notification, and to upload any documents we'll need to close the accounts.
Once you’ve completed this, our dedicated bereavement support team will review your case before they get in touch to let you know about any next steps.
You can also contact the team directly on 0800 085 1992 to notify us of a bereavement.
The bereavement team are available from 08.30 – 18.00 Monday to Friday and 09.00 – 14.00 on Saturdays (excluding public holidays).
Dealing with the estate 
Once we’re notified of a death, our bereavement support team will get in touch to explain the next steps and timescales.
We’ll inform all parts of HSBC UK which have a relationship with the deceased. We’ll freeze any sole accounts to stop withdrawals, but we’ll still allow money to be paid in.
If you're an executor and choose to deal with the estate yourself, you may find yourself receiving and paying out large sums of money. One way to keep track of these transactions more easily is to open a dedicated Executor Account with HSBC.
You can find out more about what happens to different accounts and products held by the deceased and the documents we may need to see in our Bereavement support guide (PDF 153 KB)Bereavement support guide (PDF 153 KB) This link will open in a new window. It also explains what probate is and has more about our Executor Accounts.
We’ll stop any marketing messages from being sent. However, you may still receive some because these are prepared several weeks in advance. We try to prevent this happening, but if you do receive anything, please accept our sincere apologies.
Letting other organisations know 
As well as telling friends and family of the death, there will be a number of organisations you’ll need to inform, such as other banks, building societies and utility companies.
You can use the government’s Tell us onceTell us once This link will open in a new window service to inform most government departments at the same time.
You can also use the Death Notification ServiceDeath Notification Service This link will open in a new window to notify financial institutions at the same time.
Useful information 
Bereavement support guide (PDF 153KB) Bereavement support guide (PDF 153KB) Download 
Bereavement advice for commercial customers 
Important steps
Financial and emotional wellbeing
FAQs and important documents
Contacting us 
Call us 
0800 \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/bereavement/what-to-do-when-someone-dies/
########Top of main content 
Bereavement advice for commercial customers 
Once we’re notified of a death, the relevant teams will get in touch with you to explain the next steps and timescales. For more information on how to notify us, visit our page, What to do when someone dies.
If the deceased held any business account, we’ll update our records and if appropriate we’ll notify their Relationship Manager. If the business was:
Sole trader - All accounts in the sole name of the deceased will be updated immediately. Any standing orders and Direct Debits will be cancelled. If we receive any cheques for settlement or debit card transactions not claimed prior to notification, these will be returned unpaid.
We’ll continue to accept credit payments which may be due to the deceased.
Any debit card in the name of the deceased together with any telephone banking, online banking or payment arrangements will be cancelled automatically. Interest, fees and charges may be applied after you have let us know that the account holder has died. If this happens, we’ll refund them from the date of death when we close the account.
Limited Companies 
Sole director who was Sole Signatory and Sole Shareholder - No other person is authorised by the company to instruct the Bank with a new mandate. Shareholding interest passes to the estate and it’s for the beneficiary of shareholding to appoint a new director to provide a mandate.
Sole director who was Sole Shareholder but not the Sole Signatory - As above a new director would need to be appointed after grant of probate. However, if there are sufficient remaining signatories to give instructions in accordance with mandate, the account may continue for a short period for normal company purposes pending appointment of new director and new mandate.
Sole director who was the Sole Signatory but not the Sole Shareholder - If the deceased was the sole director and sole signatory, but there’s at least one shareholder remaining, then there’ll be no one authorised to instruct the Bank under the mandate. This means that no payments can be made from the account other than any standing orders and direct debits that have previously been authorised before the death of the sole director and sole signatory. The shareholders should seek advice on appointing a new director.
Partnerships - When a partner dies the partnership is automatically dissolved, unless a partnership deed has been executed which allows the partnership to continue in the event of the death of one of the partners. If there is a Partnership Deed this will need to be provided to us as soon as possible. If not, the only payments permitted from account will be existing debts of the partnership for the purpose of winding down the partnership. Where the business needs to continue to operate, please contact us immediately and we can arrange an appointment for someone to seek the advice of one of our business managers and to discuss the future banking options for the business
A Limited Liability Partnership - is a separate legal entity. The death of a member won’t, therefore, normally affect the Limited Liability Partnership's ability to continue trading.
Clubs & Societies - If the deceased was a signatory on an account, we will update our records and provided the signing instructions on the mandate aren’t affected, the account(s) can continue to operate normally. Where this is not the case please contact us immediately as the club or society will have to appoint a further nominated signatory and provide a new mandate to allow the bank account to continue to operate. 
Important steps
What to do when someone dies
Financial and emotional wellbeing
Forms and important documents
Useful information 
Bereavement support guide (PDF 153KB) Bereavement support guide (PDF 153KB) Download 
Contacting us 
Call us 
0800 085 1992
or +44 (0)114 252 0249 if you're calling from outside the UK
General enquiries 
0345 850 0088
Lines are open 8:30am to 6pm, Monday to Friday and Saturdays 9am to 2pm (excluding public holidays).
Visit us in branch 
Find your branch 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/bereavement/commercial-customers/
########Top of main content 
What to do when you separate from a partner 
Help and support 
Dealing with separation affects everyone differently. At HSBC, we want to provide you with the help and support you need to manage your finances.
Useful information 
Below you’ll find some information on what to do if you hold any products with HSBC. These are common products that should usually be considered early in the separation process. However, because everyone’s situation is different there may be others that are applicable to you.
Please note that we have only highlighted some of the main issues to think about. We’re here for you if you wish to discuss any of these matters in more detail.
Joint HSBC current accounts 
If you hold a joint HSBC current account, you and your former partner may be happy with continuing to operate the account as normal until you both decide to close the account and separate your finances.
However, where a separation is less amicable there may be concerns about access to the money in a joint account. To assist either of you in these circumstances, one account holder may decide to tell us to freeze the account so that payments out and withdrawals can only be made if both account holders agree. It’s important to note that if we’re advised there is a dispute between joint account holders, we would freeze the account unless all account holders agree otherwise, in accordance with our Personal Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 564KB)Personal Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 564KB) This link will open in a new window.
If a joint account is frozen, please bear in mind the following:
HSBC will require instruction from both account holders to make Bill Payments, Telegraphic Transfers or International Payments on the account.
Debit cards for both account holders will be deactivated.
No further cheques should be written if you or your former partner has a cheque book, as cheques will not be paid.
Both account holders will be required to provide us with their agreement if any Direct Debits or standing orders payments need to be paid from the account.
Online Banking will be suspended for both account holders for the particular joint account.
We will also freeze access to joint savings accounts for both account holders.
Both account holders are required to agree on the closure of the joint account.
If you or your former partner, decide to continue to use your account, we’ll need instruction from both account holders agreeing to un-freeze it.
Separating your finances 
Once you and your former partner have agreed to separate your finances, you’ll both need to consider the following:
If you hold another HSBC account in your own individual name and want to move any Direct Debits or standing orders from your joint account to that sole account, you can do this via Online Banking, Telephone Banking or by visiting a local branch, providing your joint account has not been frozen by you or your former partner.
If you do not have a sole HSBC account in your own individual name, please contact us via Telephone Banking or visit us in branch and we’ll assist you in opening an account.
Before you decide to close your joint account, please get in touch with one of our team to find out the best options available to you. You can contact us on 03457 404 404 (lines are open 8:00 to 22:00 every day) or for HSBC Premier 03457 70 70 70 (lines are open 24/7). Please note that if your joint account is frozen, we’ll need instructions from you and your former partner to close the account.
If you wish to close your HSBC joint account and open an account with another bank or building society in individual names, then you won’t be able to use the Current Account Switching Service (CASS) to transfer your regular payments from a joint account to a sole account. For more information please visit www.simplerworld.co.ukwww.simplerworld.co.uk More information will be at simplerwork.co.uk. This link will open in a new window.
If you jointly hold either a HSBC Premier or HSBC Advance account which you’ve decided to close, you’ll need to individually meet the eligibility criteria if you choose to open one of these accounts in your own name. Any accounts or credit facilities will be reassessed on your individual income and outgoings at the time of applying. What this means is that you may lose some of the benefits or features you had that were associated with the HSBC Premier or Advance account. To find out more on the eligibility criteria and the benefits please visit:
HSBC Premier
HSBC Advance
Additional credit card holder 
If your former partner is an additional card holder on your credit card account you can choose to remove them. Please note, until they are removed, you will be liable for whatever they spend using the card (as well as your own spending). If you do decide to remove them, you should let them know as they may rely on the card for day-to-day spending.
If you are an additional card holder on your former partner’s account and you have been removed, and you don’t already own a HSBC credit card, you may be able to apply for your own card. Whether you can obtain your own card will be subject to status at the time of applying. HSBC Credit cards.
Joint HSBC mortgage 
If you have a HSBC mortgage in joint names, you will both remain equally responsible for meeting the monthly payments (it is not the case that each of you is only responsible for paying half, even if one of you has moved out of the property).
If you have both agreed that only one of you will continue to be responsible for repaying your mortgage, you will need to contact us to discuss the options available to you.
To ask about changing the owner and/or borrower named on your mortgage, please call us on 0800 169 6333 (lines are open 08:00 to 20:00 Monday to Friday, and 09:00 to 17:00 Saturday and Sunday).
Joint HSBC loan 
If you have a joint HSBC loan, both account holders are liable for the full payments, even if the relation\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/separation/help-and-support/
########Top of main content 
Third party mandate 
A third party mandate is a formal instruction from you to HSBC UK. It tells us that you’d like someone else to carry out everyday banking transactions on your HSBC UK bank account.
These don't include arranging a formal overdraft or opening or closing an account for you.
You might consider this option if you need help managing your accounts, for convenience or because you don’t have access to them.
For example, if you're recovering from an operation you might want someone to pay your bills.
Table of contents 
What access does a third party mandate give?
How do I register a third party mandate?
When will third party access stop?
How do I cancel an existing third party mandate?
Please note, before deciding if a third party mandate is right for you, you should consider other options.
You’ll find more examples of when a third party mandate may be suitable in our ‘Understanding third party access’ table.
What access does a third party mandate give? 
A third party mandate gives access to:
obtain information about account holder's account(s)
make payments (i.e. bills)
withdraw cash
decrease card limit
deposit cash/cheques
retrieve items from safe keeping (excluding wills, unless written consent is given by the account holder)
access phone banking 
issue cheques
hold a debit card (excluding on Global Money Accounts)
send high value payments including overseas payments
send electronic funds transfers (EFTs)
How do I register a third party mandate? 
Complete a third party mandate in a branch 
You and your third party should visit an HSBC UK branch to complete the third party mandate registration. You can complete and print the form before visiting the branch by downloading a copy from this link: Third party mandate form (PDF, 903KB)Third party mandate form (PDF, 903KB) This link will open in a new window
There are some important things to remember:
Follow the instructions carefully as any mistakes may lead to a delay in processing your third party mandate.
The third party must supply suitable documents proving their identity and residential address (see examples on page 5 of the Third party mandate general information (PDF, 2,412KB)Third party mandate general information (PDF, 2,412KB) This link will open in a new window
The third party must include full name, address, date of birth and signature on the third party mandate.
Return a third party mandate by post 
You can get a blank copy of a third party mandate from any HSBC UK branch or download, complete and print a copy from this link: Third party mandate form (PDF, 903KBThird party mandate form (PDF, 903KB This link will open in a new window) then post it back to a branch.
Please include the following documents in the envelope:
completed third party mandate (including the full name, address, date of birth and signature of all account holders)
suitable documents proving the identity and residential address for the third party (see examples on page 5 of the Third party mandate general information (PDF, 2,412KB)Third party mandate general information (PDF, 2,412KB) This link will open in a new window

We can accept official copies certified by a solicitor if you're sending your documents by post.
Please note, we may contact you by phone and ask you to verify your identity with a standard security check. We’ll then confirm that you’re happy for the mandate to be issued before completing your request.
Please note, HSBC UK does not accept responsibility if original documents sent to us have been lost in the post.
What ID documents are acceptable?
Example identification documents 
current passport
current National Identity Card
current driving licence
travel documents (issued in the UK by the Home Office)
Example address documents 
Council Tax bill (valid for current year)
utility bill (dated within last 4 months)
phone bill (dated within last 4 months) – mobile phone bills are not acceptable
For a list of all the documents we accept, please see our proof of ID and address page.
When will third party access stop? 
You can choose to cancel your third party mandate at any time.
If we are notified that either of you begin to lose mental capacity the third party mandate will automatically be cancelled. 
Events which may affect your third party access see our ‘Stopping Third Party Access’ table on page 10 of the Third party mandate general information (PDF, 2,412KB)Third party mandate general information (PDF, 2,412KB) This link will open in a new window
How do I cancel an existing third party mandate? 
If you choose to cancel your third party mandate you can do at anytime by either:
visiting us in branch to speak to us in person. To find your nearest branch, use our handy branch locator
speak to one of our colleagues on 03457 404 404. Lines are open from 08:00 to 20:00 every day. We may monitor or record calls
send a signed written request to a branch providing us with your sort code and account number, details of the third parties to be removed from the account and the date you wish the cancellation of the mandate to be effective from
It may take up to 10 working days from receipt of the instruction for the cancellation to take effect.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/third-party-mandate/
########Top of main content 
Third Party Glossary 
Appointee 
A person appointed by the Department for Work and Pensions to act on behalf of an individual receiving state benefits but unable to manage their benefit-related affairs due to mental incapacity or severe physical disability.
Attorney 
A person or group of people appointed to look after the finances or property of another person. An attorney may be acting under one of the following types of powers of attorney: ordinary, lasting, or enduring.
Certified copy 
A photocopy which bears a certificate signed by the maker of the power, a solicitor, or a stockbroker (or notary) at the end (of each page) that it is a true and complete copy of the original and must be accepted as proof of the contents of the original.
Deed of revocation 
A formal document which may be used to cancel a lasting power of attorney or an unregistered enduring power of attorney, depending on circumstances. You can find more information on the DirectGov websiteDirectGov website This link will open in a new window.
Deputy 
A person or group of people appointed by the Court of Protection to manage the affairs of a person who has lost capacity to make decisions for themselves.
Donor 
An individual who wishes to give another person the authority to act or make decisions on their behalf.
"Jointly" and "Jointly and severally" 
There may be multiple third parties representing an individual irrespective of the type of third party access they have been granted (i.e. third party mandate or power of attorney). They may be appointed to act "jointly" or "jointly and severally". Appointing multiple representatives to act "jointly" means that they must all make decisions together, while appointing them to act "jointly or severally" means that they can make decisions together or alone. In everyday English you may hear the term "jointly and individually" used instead of "jointly and severally".
Receiver 
Prior to 1 October 2007 a person appointed by the Court of Protection to act on behalf of an individual who had lost capacity was called a 'receiver'. After this date, the term became 'deputy' (see above). A receiver who was appointed by the Court of Protection prior to 1 October 2007 can continue to act under the powers outlined in the original court order, although they will be known officially as deputies not receivers.
Third party 
For the purposes of these webpages, a third party is an individual acting on behalf of someone else under a formal instruction such as a third party mandate, power of attorney, Court of Protection order or Department for Work and Pensions appointment.
You might also be interested in
Types of third party access
Third party access FAQs
Third party access useful links
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/third-party-access/glossary/
########Top of main content 
Third party FAQs 
Table of contents
How will I know that the power of attorney, Court of Protection order or third party mandate has been lodged correctly with HSBC or if there are any issues?
How long does it take to set up a power of attorney, Court of Protection order or third party mandate on my account?
Can I name multiple third parties?
What if my power of attorney, Court of Protection order or third party mandate contains specific restrictions?
Can I give someone third party access to a joint account I hold?
What happens with my joint accounts if I lose mental capacity?
How can I ensure third parties do not defraud me or perform other actions which I do not agree with?
What is the difference between a third party mandate and an ordinary power of attorney?
What is a specific ordinary power of attorney?
What happens if I am abroad for an extended period of time with no access to my bank account?
What if the power of attorney is a foreign power?
Who can decide and tell you whether I'm mentally capable?
What is the difference between an enduring power of attorney and a lasting power of attorney?
Does an enduring power of attorney or lasting power of attorney give a third party access even if I'm mentally incapable?
What happens if I am appointing a solicitor or professional services firm as my attorney?
What account information can you give me to help with my Court of Protection application?
What information can you give the Court of Protection or the Office of the Public Guardian about the way I'm managing the account as a deputy?
I am applying to become a deputy for an HSBC customer. Can you provide me with the security deposit I need to become a deputy from the customer's account?
How will I know that the power of attorney, Court of Protection order or third party mandate has been lodged correctly with HSBC or if there are any issues? 
If you submitted the documentation to us, we will contact you as soon as possible if there are any issues causing a delay in processing the third party access.
How long does it take to set up a power of attorney, Court of Protection order or third party mandate on my account? 
It can vary depending on whether we have received a complete and correctly filled out set of documents. We will contact you in case there are any issues causing a delay in processing your documentation.
Can I name multiple third parties? 
You may appoint any number of third parties if you are using a third party mandate or power of attorney. The mandate or power of attorney must state clearly who has been appointed and whether they are authorised to act "jointly" or "jointly and individually" when making decisions. Appointing multiple third parties to act "jointly" means that they must all make decisions together, while appointing them to act "jointly or individually" means that they are authorised to make decisions together or alone.
Please note, for security reasons if the third parties can only make decisions "jointly", they will not be able to have access to telephone banking or online banking.
In the case of a Court of Protection order, the Court will decide who to appoint as a deputy and what their duties and powers will be.
What if my power of attorney, Court of Protection order or third party mandate contains specific restrictions? 
Any third party access may include restrictions to the third party's powers depending on the wishes of the person providing access to his or her accounts. A third party mandate is a pre-printed bank document that allows you to choose from certain restrictions. Powers of attorney allow you to add your own restrictions.
Please note, for security reasons any restriction on a third party mandate or power of attorney will stop the third party having access to telephone banking and online banking.
In the case of a Court of Protection order, the Court will decide what restrictions, if any, should be made to the deputy's powers.
Can I give someone third party access to a joint account I hold? 
You and any other parties to the joint account need to agree and submit jointly signed instructions to us if you would like to appoint a third person to have access to the joint account.
What happens with my joint accounts if I lose mental capacity? 
If we are notified that you have become incapable of managing your accounts, any joint accounts you hold will be inhibited unless a third party can present us with a registered lasting or enduring power of attorney (stamped and perforated by the Office of the Prosecutor) or until we receive a Court of Protection order appointing a deputy to manage your accounts. Some pre-authorised payments, for example mortgage or utility bill payments, may continue to debit the account while it is inhibited.
If you lose capacity and you have an attorney appointed to manage the joint account on your behalf, any other parties to the joint account will be notified. The attorney and the other joint account holder(s) will have to agree on how to manage the joint account in the future.
How can I ensure third parties do not defraud me or perform other actions which I do not agree with? 
Once you authorise another person to have access to your account(s), you will be responsible for their actions or omissions as if they were your own as long as you remain mentally capable. If you have given the third party access via a third party mandate or power of attorney, you do have the option of restricting the level of access they have.
If you lose capacity, the types of third party access which may be used would be a registered lasting or enduring power of attorney or a Court of Protection order. Registered attorneys and deputies have a responsibility to act in the best interest of the individual they represent. You can follow these links to the Directgov website to find out more information on the duties of deputiesdeputies on DirectGov website This link will open in a new window and attorneysattorneys on DirectGov website\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/third-party-access/faq/
########Top of main content 
Useful links 
Table of contents
UK Finance
Court of Protection
Department for Work and Pensions
Office of the Public Guardian
UK government website
The National Archives
UK Finance 
UK Finance is a trade association for the UK banking and financial services sector, formed on 1 July 2017. It represents around 300 firms in the UK providing credit, banking, markets and payment-related services. Formerly known as British Banking Association prior to merge 1 July 2017.
Address:
5th Floor
1 Angel Court
London
EC2R 7HJ
Phone: +44 (0) 20 7706 3333
Court of Protection 
The Court of Protection (COP) was created under the Mental Capacity Act 2005. It makes decisions, and appoints other people to make decisions, for people who lack the capacity to do this for themselves. These decisions relate to the property and affairs, and healthcare and personal welfare of adults (and occasionally children) who lack capacity.
Address:
Archway Tower
2 Junction Road
London
N19 5SZ
Phone: 0300 456 4600
Text phone: 020 7664 7755
Department for Work and Pensions 
The Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) is the government department responsible for welfare. It works with people of working age, employers, disabled people, pensioners, families and children, providing services through a number of executive agencies and non-departmental public bodies.
Official Website: www.dwp.gov.ukwww.dwp.gov.uk Department for work & pensions This link will open in a new window
Contacts: www.dwp.gov.uk/contact-uswww.dwp.gov.uk/contact-us Department of Work and Pensions This link will open in a new window
Specific link: Guide for Agents, Appointees, Attorneys, and DeputiesGuide for Agents, Appointees, Attorneys, and Deputies This link will open in a new window
Office of the Public Guardian 
The Office of the Public Guardian supports and promotes decision making for those who lack capacity or would like to plan for their future. It can provide information about making a lasting power of attorney or applying to the Court of Protection.
Address:
PO Box 16185
Birmingham
B2 2WH
Phone: 0300 456 0300
Text phone: 0115 934 2778
Fax: 0870 739 5780
Email: customerservices@publicguardian.gsi.gov.uk
UK Government website: Directgov 
Directgov is the official Government website that provides information on public services such as benefits, jobs, the environment, pensions and health services.
Official Website: www.direct.gov.ukwww.direct.gov.uk This link will open in a new window
Specific links:
Mental capacity and planning aheadMental capacity and planning ahead on DirectGov website This link will open in a new window - information regarding Lasting and Enduring powers of attorney
Making decisions for someone elseMaking decisions for someone else on DirectGov website This link will open in a new window - information about Court of Protection orders/deputyships
Understanding the Mental Capacity ActUnderstanding the Mental Capacity Act on DirectGov website This link will open in a new window
The National Archives 
The National Archives is a United Kingdom government department and an executive agency of the Ministry of Justice. Their official website provides access to the original (as enacted) and revised versions of all UK legislation.
Official Website: www.legislation.gov.ukwww.legislation.gov.uk This link will open in a new window
Specific link: Powers of Attorney Act 1971Powers of Attorney Act 1971 on UK Legislation website This link will open in a new window (includes Section 10. Effect of general power of attorney in specified form)
You might also be interested in
Types of third party access
Third party access FAQs
Third party access glossary
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/third-party-access/useful-links/
########Top of main content 
Registering a Power of Attorney with HSBC 
How to register 
You can register a Power of Attorney or Court of Protection Order with us in the following ways:
register online
visit us in a branch
This can take up to 10 working days.
Get everything ready 
We’ll need to see all pages of the Power of Attorney or Court of Protection Order, whether you’re submitting your document online or in branch.
This can be either the original, or a copy certified by a solicitor, a Notary Public, or by the donor if they have the mental capacity to do so. If you submit a copy of the document it must be signed and dated on every page, including any blank pages.
If you have an LPA access code from the Office of the Public Guardian, you can register this onlineregister this online This link will open in a new window or take the code into a branch.
To complete the registration, you’ll also need:
the personal and contact details of any attorney wishing to be registered
the donor’s details
your identification 
Register your Power of Attorney or Court of Protection Order online 
To register your Power of Attorney or Court of Protection Order, you’ll need to complete an online form.
Lasting Power of Attorney 
If you’re registering a Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA), you can get an LPA access code from the Office of the Public Guardian (OPG). If you registered the LPA on or after 17 July 2020, the letter you received from the OPG included an activation key. This tells you how to get your LPA access code which we can use to register the LPA.
If you registered the LPA between 1 January 2016 and 16 July 2020, you can request a new or replacement activation key onlinenew or replacement activation key online This link will open in a new window. Once you have this, you’ll be able to get a new LPA access code which we can use to register the LPA.
To get your LPA access code, visit the GOV.UK websitevisit the GOV.UK website This link will open in a new window and follow the instructions.
Your LPA access code should be 13 characters long and begin with a V. It will be valid for 30 days, and if your code expires, you’ll need to request a new one from the OPG.
You can use our online service if:
you’re registering an LPA with the OPG in England and Wales, on or after 1 January 2016
the donor is an existing HSBC customer
the LPA doesn’t contain any instructions or preferences. If it does, we’ll need to see a paper copy
All other Powers of Attorney, Lasting Power of Attorney (paper), and Court of Protection Order 
You don’t need an LPA access code to register an Enduring Power of Attorney, General (Ordinary) Power of Attorney, Scottish Power of Attorney, or a Court of Protection Order.
You don’t need an LPA access code if you registered your LPA with the OPG before 1 January 2016, but you may need to provide us with a paper copy of the LPA if there are any instructions or preferences.
When you complete our online form, you’ll be able to let us know that you have a paper copy. Once we’ve received your form (this usually takes a few days), we’ll send you a link to upload your paper copy through our document upload service. Make sure you provide us with your up-to-date email address and regularly check your inbox.
Register here Register here This link will open in a new window 
In a branch 
Take one of the following into your local branch, and we'll complete the registration process:
secure digital access code – we can only accept this if the Power of Attorney has no ‘special instructions’, preferences or restrictions. If it does, we’ll need to see a full Power of Attorney document
full Power of Attorney document - either the original or a copy which has been certified on every page
court of protection order

Registering the secure digital access code:
your code should be 13 characters long and begin with a 'V'
it's valid for 30 days
if your code has expired, you’ll need to request a new one from the Office of the Public Guardian
You’ll also need to take a form of identification and address verification for each attorney. You can find a list of acceptable documentation on our ID check page.
LPA access code 
We’ll be in touch if we need any further information from you. We’ll always try to contact you by phone for convenience.
Once we’ve reviewed and accepted all the documents and information you’ve provided, we’ll register the Power of Attorney or Court of Protection Order. We’ll also make sure you have a debit card sent out and that you’re registered for phone banking where the power or order allows us to do so. If you need to set up digital banking, you can either give us a call or visit us in branch once everything is registered.
We may need proof of identification and address if you’ve applied online. If we do, we’ll be in touch to let you know how to do this.
If you’re already with HSBC UK and registered for digital banking, please log on and make sure your contact details are up-to-date. If you’re not registered, you can register for digital banking by following the instructions on our website.
You can also update your contact details using phone banking, or by visiting your nearest branch. Use our branch finder to find your nearest branch.
Once everything is done, we’ll send a text message to the donor (where the donor has mental capacity) or the main attorney/deputy (where the donor doesn’t have mental capacity) if we’ve been provided with a mobile phone number. We’ll also follow up with a confirmation letter.
How we'll use your information 
We’ll use your personal information and that of the donor to register the Power of Attorney (or Court of Protection order). If we need to use this data for any other related purposes, this will be in line with legal and/or regulatory requirements. To find out more about how we use your information and your rights please read our Privacy Notice. If you provide information for another person (eg an attorney), you’ll need to direct them to this notice.
Useful Links 
Age \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/poa/registering-for-poa-with-hsbc/
########Top of main content 
What Can A Power Of Attorney Do? 
An attorney can help make decisions about someone's finances, or make decisions on their behalf.
If the power appoints a sole attorney or multiple attorneys who can each act separately (e.g jointly and severally) the table below provides guidance on the services that we can provide.
If the power appoints more than one attorney to act together (i.e. 'jointly'), all attorneys have to act together. This means that any services restricted to sole access cannot be provided. This includes debit cards, internet banking, mobile banking and telephone banking.
If the power of attorney document contains restrictions, we need to comply with the restrictions which may mean that we cannot provide some of these services.
Summary of what an attorney can do 
What an attorney can do

General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Enduring Power of Attorney Lasting Power of Attorney 
Manage donor's account/s if mental capacity is lost11 view footnote 1
No	Yes	Yes	
Hold a debit card22 view footnote 2 (excluding Global Money accounts)

Yes	Yes	Yes	
Issue cheques / make payments (e.g. bills) / withdraw cash
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Pay in cash / cheques
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Order cheque book / credit book
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Order a replacement debit card / PIN22 view footnote 2
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Order a statement
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Set up / amend / cancel standing orders and direct debits
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Access phone banking22 view footnote 2
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Access online banking33 view footnote 3
No	Yes	Yes	
Access to mobile banking22 view footnote 2
No	Yes	Yes	
Change donor's address
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Apply for ISAs
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Open / close accounts on behalf of the donor
No	Yes	Yes	
Obtain information regarding the donor's account/s
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Retrieve items from safekeeping
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Sign a mortgage loan agreement
Yes	Yes	Yes	
Arrange an overdraft
No	No	No	
Summary of what an attorney can do 
What an attorney can do

Manage donor's account/s if mental capacity is lost11 view footnote 1
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney No	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Hold a debit card22 view footnote 2 (excluding Global Money accounts)

	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Issue cheques / make payments (e.g. bills) / withdraw cash
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Pay in cash / cheques
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Order cheque book / credit book
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Order a replacement debit card / PIN22 view footnote 2
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Order a statement
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Set up / amend / cancel standing orders and direct debits
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Access phone banking22 view footnote 2
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Access online banking33 view footnote 3
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney No	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Access to mobile banking22 view footnote 2
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney No	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Change donor's address
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Apply for ISAs
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Open / close accounts on behalf of the donor
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney No	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Obtain information regarding the donor's account/s
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Retrieve items from safekeeping
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Sign a mortgage loan agreement
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney Yes	
Enduring Power of Attorney Yes	
Lasting Power of Attorney Yes	
	
What an attorney can do

Arrange an overdraft
	
General or Ordinary Power of Attorney No	
Enduring Power of Attorney No	
Lasting Power of Attorney No	
1 If the customer (donor) loses/is losing mental capacity, an Enduring Power of Attorney must be sent to the Office of the Public Guardian for registration
2 If the Power of attorney appoints more than one attorney, they must be able to act separately as well as together (i.e. jointly and severally).
3 If the power appoints more than one attorney, they must be able to act separately as well as together (ie jointly and severally). In addition, only one person can access a sole account through online banking. Therefore, either one attorney or the individual they are acting for can have access to the donor's online banking, not both.
What happens if the power of attorney document contains restrictions? 
We need to comply with restrictions that are stated in the power. This may mean that your attorneys can’t access all of our services (such as phone banking, online banking, mobile banking and debit cards). It may take longer to regi\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/poa/what-an-attorney-can-do/
########Top of main content 
Power of attorney – Frequently Asked Questions 
Table of contents 
Understanding power of attorneyUnderstanding power of attorney anchor to Understanding power of attorney section
Registering power of attorney with HSBCRegistering power of attorney with HSBC anchor to registering power of attorney with hsbc section
Troubleshooting and more helpTroubleshooting and more help anchor to troubleshooting and more help section

Understanding power of attorney 
What is a power of attorney? 
A power of attorney is a legal document that appoints one or more people (your attorneys) to make decisions for you (the donor).
Can I appoint more than one attorney? 
Yes. If you appoint more than one attorney, you must specify whether they are to act 'jointly' (ie together) or 'jointly and severally' (ie together or individually). If you appoint your attorneys to act 'jointly' this means that they won't be able to access phone banking, online banking, mobile banking and they won't be able to have a debit card. 
What happens if I appoint a solicitor or a firm as an attorney? 
The same process applies as if an individual has been appointed.
What is a Court of Protection order? 
A Court of Protection order can be issued when someone loses mental capacity and there is no lasting power of attorney or enduring power of attorney in existence. Further information can be found at GOV.UKGOV.UK This link will open in a new window.
What is a deputy? 
A deputy is a person appointed by the Court of Protection to manage the affairs of someone who lacks the mental capacity to manage their own affairs. Further information can be found at GOV.UKGOV.UK This link will open in a new window.
Back to top 
Registering power of attorney with HSBC 
Who can register a power of attorney online? 
You can register your power of attorney or Court of Protection order using our online form if:
you’re the sole attorney or deputy and you have an HSBC account
the donor or person covered by a Court of Protection order is an HSBC customer with a bank account or credit card
you’re registering a lasting power of attorney, ordinary (general) power of attorney, enduring power of attorney, Scottish powers, Northern Ireland enduring powers or a Court of Protection order
Please go to our Power of attorney registration page for more information.
What documents will I need to register a power of attorney? 
We will need to see the full power of attorney document – either the original, or a copy which has been certified (see Important documents). We will also need to see suitable documents for identification and address verification. If multiple attorneys are appointed to act 'jointly', every attorney will need to provide suitable identification and address verification. For a list of acceptable documents, please see our Help us identify you page.
How long does it take to register a Power of Attorney with HSBC? 
Once we have all of the information we need, the power of attorney will be set up within 10 working days.
What happens if the power of attorney document contains restrictions? 
We need to comply with restrictions, which are stated in the power, which may mean that your attorneys cannot access all of our services (such as telephone banking, online banking, mobile banking, debit card). It may take longer to register with us because we may need additional information.
How do I access phone banking? 
If you've asked for phone access when registering for power of attorney with us, we'll post a letter and phone banking pack to the attorney. This explains how to register for phone access. Once you're registered, you can call us if you're the attorney. You'll need to key in the donor's sort code and account number. Then when prompted, key in:
your own date of birth
the digits from your own Telephone Security Number
How do I access online and mobile banking? 
Once registered for phone banking, the attorney can apply for online banking once the power of attorney has been updated in our records. You can apply in one of our branches or by calling us on 03457 404 404.
To find out more about mobile banking.
Please note: we can only give online banking access to one party at a time (either donor or attorney). We can't given you online and mobile banking if you have a general power of attorney.
Where can I register my Secure Digital Access code for my power of attorney? 
Please follow the steps here to register your code with HSBC.
How will I know when the power of attorney is registered with HSBC? 
A confirmation letter will be issued to the donor (where the donor is mentally capable) or the 'main' attorney (where the donor is mentally incapable).
Who can certify my POA document if I live in the UK? 
If you live in the UK, the donor, a solicitor or a notary public can certify your POA document.
If you live outside the UK, you'll need to get both your proof of identity document and your proof of address documents certified. You can find out how to do this by visiting our Help us to identify you page.
Back to top 
Troubleshooting and more help 
I'm having trouble activating my new debit card. What should I do? 
When you call to activate your card, please enter the donor’s date of birth and not your own to complete the activation.
What happens if the donor becomes mentally incapable? 
Some types of power of attorney remain valid if the donor becomes mentally incapable. Please see our Types of power of attorney page for further information. For further information on mental capacity please refer to our Mental capacity section.
What happens if the donor dies? 
The power is revoked (cancelled) and the attorney’s authority is cancelled.
What if the power of attorney is a foreign power? 
Any decision to accept a foreign power of attorney is taken on a 'case by case' basis.
What happens if the power of attorney document contains restrictions? 
We need to comply with restrictions which are stated in the power which may mean that your attorneys cannot \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/poa/faqs/
########Top of main content 
Types of Power of Attorney 
What is a power of attorney? 
A power of attorney is a legal document whereby a customer (known as the donor) appoints one or more people (attorneys) to act on their behalf if they’re unable to manage their accounts.
The donor must have mental capacity to create a power of attorney. It’s usually done by a solicitor or through the government website. The power of attorney also needs to be registered with the Office of the Public Guardian before it can be used with HSBC.
You can find more about how to complete this process here: https://www.gov.uk/power-of-attorney/registerhttps://www.gov.uk/power-of-attorney/register This link will open in a new window.
Types of Power of Attorney 
Lasting power of attorney 
There are two types of lasting power of attorney (LPA):
property and financial affairs
health and welfare
Please note, we cannot accept a health and welfare LPA.
An LPA for property and financial affairs allows attorneys to make financial decisions and carry out day-to-day transactions on the donor’s behalf.
An LPA must be registered with the Office of the Public Guardian before it can be used. However, once this has been done, it remains valid even if the donor loses mental capacity.
A continuing or combined power of attorney in Scotland is similar to an LPA. It must be registered with the Office of the Public Guardian in Scotland before it can be used.
To find out more about what attorneys can do, see our What an attorney can do page.
Since 2007, the LPA is the only type that’s been available to be registered, however there are other types that were available before this.
To register an LPA, please visit Registering your power of attorney with HSBC.
General, ordinary and specific powers of attorney 
A general power of attorney is a legal document that appoints one or more attorneys to make financial decisions for the donor. It’s also known as an ordinary power of attorney.
A general power of attorney applies to all the donor’s affairs but can be limited to specific affairs only. This is known as a specific power of attorney.
A general power of attorney is automatically revoked (cancelled) if the donor loses mental capacity.
To find out more about what attorneys can do, see our What an attorney can do page.
To register a power of attorney, please visit Registering your power of attorney with HSBC.
Enduring power of attorney 
Enduring powers of attorney (EPAs) only apply to England, Wales and Northern Ireland. They’re still issued in Northern Ireland but not in England or Wales. However, enduring powers of attorney signed in England or Wales before 1 October 2007 are still valid and we can accept them.
An EPA acts in the same way as the other types, but you only have to register it if the donor is losing or has lost mental capacity. If this happens, you need to register it with the Office of the Public Guardian (or in Northern Ireland, the Office of Care and Protection).
If we're asked to add a registered EPA to our records, we’ll treat this as confirmation that the donor has lost mental capacity and the donor’s access to their accounts will be removed.
You can find out more about enduring powers of attorney on the GOV.UK website here: https://www.gov.uk/enduring-power-attorney-dutieshttps://www.gov.uk/enduring-power-attorney-duties This link will open in a new window.
We also have a page about what an attorney can do.
And you can learn more about registering your power of attorney with HSBC.
Court of Protection order 
A Court of Protection order can be issued when someone loses mental capacity and there’s no power of attorney in place. You can find out more at www.gov.ukwww.gov.uk This link will open in a new window.
The Court of Protection will appoint a deputy. This is a person to manage the affairs of someone who lacks the mental capacity to manage their own affairs.
Mental capacity 
When you want to register a power of attorney with us, if you’re the attorney, we’ll ask you whether the donor retains the mental capacity to manage their financial affairs.
Mental capacity can be thought of as the ability to make your own decisions. You can find out more about mental incapacity and about the practical application of the 2005 Mental Capacity Act on the NHS websiteNHS website This link will open in a new window.
As an attorney, you may need to support someone you know who has lost the capacity to deal with their financial affairs. This government guide will provide you with information and links which you may find useful: Make decisions on behalf of someoneMake decisions on behalf of someone This link will open in a new window.
Independence Service 
We also have an Independence Service if you find it difficult to manage your finances but don’t want to rely entirely on someone else. You can open a Basic Bank Account Providing Independence. This allows you to carry on with day-to-day tasks such as food shopping and leisure activities, but with support from an attorney or deputy. Find out more about our Independence Service. 
Useful Links 
Age UK 
Alzheimer's Society 
British Bankers' Association 
Carers UK 
Citizens advice 
MIND 
Mental Health foundation 
Office of public guardian 
UK government website 
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/poa/types-of-poa/
########Top of main content 
Payment choices 
You can opt for capital repayment or interest-only arragements on your HSBC mortgage according to your needs 
In line with the government's Mortgage Charter, HSBC can now offer more options to help mortgage customers through the cost of living crisis.
Close 
Understand your repayment options 
Here we lay out the options for you to consider carefully.
Capital repayment 
With a capital repayment plan, your monthly payment covers the interest charged on your mortgage and it also reduces the outstanding balance each month in line with the term selected. With this repayment plan, you can ensure your mortgage is fully paid off at the end of the mortgage period.
What you get with the repayment option: 
Interest and capital repaid 
Your monthly payment covers the interest and also reduces the total balance outstanding. 
Security 
Providing all payments are made, the mortgage will be repaid in full at the end of the agreed mortgage term. 
Choose your repayment term 
Up to a maximum of 40 years. 
Capital repayment is a repayment option on all of our mortgage products: fixed rate and tracker mortgages.
Interest only 
With an interest-only mortgage, your monthly payment covers only the interest on your loan, enabling you to invest to pay off your mortgage at the end of the mortgage term or freeing up cash to spend elsewhere.
By repaying only the interest on your mortgage, your monthly payments are lower than with an equivalent capital repayment mortgage.
Note: You are responsible for making your own arrangements to repay your mortgage at the end of the mortgage term. This could be through an endowment scheme or some other savings and investment plan. Your home may be repossessed if you do not have sufficient funds to repay the capital balance outstanding at the end of the term.
In order to qualify for our interest-only mortgages: 
sole applicants must have a minimum income of £75,000 per annum excluding bonus, commission, overtime and rental income
for joint applications, at least one applicant must have an individual income of £75,000 per annum excluding bonus, commission, overtime and rental income
for a Buy-to-Let interest-only mortgage, you must meet our Buy-to-Let criteria
What you get with the interest-only option: 
Interest only 
The monthly payment covers just the interest and the original capital amount borrowed remains outstanding throughout the term of the loan. 
Lower monthly payments 
Because you are not repaying the capital, your monthly payments will be lower than with a capital repayment mortgage. 
Choose your mortgage loan term 
Up to a maximum of 25 years (maximum of 40 years for Buy-to-Let) 
Lower borrowing limit 
Up to a maximum of 75% loan to value of the purchase price, or the valuation of your property (whichever is lower). This is also known as your loan to value. For example a £100k mortgage with a £80k mortgage = 80% loan to value. 
The table below shows the LTV bandings we offer: 
Borrowing amount
Maximum loan to value
Up to and including £400,000
75%	
Over £400,000 to £1 million
75%	
Over £1 million to £2 million
65%	
Over £2 million
50%	
The table below shows the LTV bandings we offer: 
Borrowing amount
Up to and including £400,000
	
Maximum loan to value
75%	
	
Borrowing amount
Over £400,000 to £1 million
	
Maximum loan to value
75%	
	
Borrowing amount
Over £1 million to £2 million
	
Maximum loan to value
65%	
	
Borrowing amount
Over £2 million
	
Maximum loan to value
50%	
If you are interested in applying for a part capital repayment mortgage and a part interest only mortgage, please contact us.
Important considerations 
You must be able to demonstrate you have a suitable repayment strategy in place.
Get an idea of what your mortgage could look like with one of our calculatorscalculators for mortgages.
When you are considering your repayment strategy the following apply: 
property: you can only use up to 75% of its value and this should not be from the sale of your main residence
endowments: Should be based on the lowest estimated projection quoted on the latest endowment policy statement
other investments and savings: should be based on their current value 
Find and compare mortgages Find and compare mortgages This link will open in a new window 
Contact us 
0800 16963330800 1696333 This link will open in a new window
Our lines are open 08:00 to 20:00 Monday to Saturday, and 09:00 to 18:00 on Sundays. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within our mortgage departments may vary.
How to apply 
New Application 
Applying for a mortgage involves two stages, firstly getting a Decision in Principle; secondly making a mortgage application. 
Apply Apply for HSBC Mortgage 
Already started an application? 
If you started a mortgage application over the phone or online, you can log on to complete it or track its progress. 
Continue Continue application for HSBC Mortgage 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top Back to top Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/guidance/payment-choices/
########Top of main content 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) 
The PPI complaints deadline of 29 August 2019 has now passed 
The Financial Conduct Authority set a deadline of 29 August 2019 for PPI complaints. There was a nationwide campaign to raise awareness of this deadline.
Generally, if you didn’t make a complaint before 29 August 2019, companies regulated by the FCA will no longer review them. This includes HSBC UK.
Read more about the PPI deadline on the FCAFCA This link will open in a new window website.
Exceptional circumstances 
There are certain ‘exceptional circumstances’ where we will consider a PPI mis-selling complaint received after the FCA deadline.
If you feel exceptional circumstances prevented you from making a complaint, please contact us on 0800 085 2451 (Text phone 18001 08457 125 563). You can also submit a complaint via our Online complaint formOnline complaint form This link will open in a new window. In the form, please describe the exceptional circumstances which meant you couldn't submit a complaint by 29 August 2019.
The Financial Ombudsman Service has more information on exceptional circumstancesexceptional circumstances This link will open in a new window.
Additional support and information is also offered by the following bodies:
Financial Conduct AuthorityFinancial Conduct Authority This link will open in a new window
MoneyHelperMoneyHelper This link will open in a new window
Citizens AdviceCitizens Advice This link will open in a new window
How long will I have to wait before I receive a response? 
If you've already made a complaint, there's no need to do anything more. Within 8 weeks of HSBC receiving your complaint, you should also either receive a final response, or a communication outlining when you can expect a final response.
What to do if you aren’t happy with your complaint outcome or decision 
If you aren’t happy with our final response, or haven’t received a final response within 8 weeks, you can complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service about this.
You can complain to the Financial Ombudsman Service after the 29 August 2019 deadline if:
you complained to your provider on or before 29 August 2019*
your provider gave its final response on or after the 29 August 2019*
you had exceptional circumstances which prevented you making a complaint before 29 August 2019*

*You'll need to submit your complaint within 6 months of receiving your PPI provider’s final response.
Frequently Asked Questions 
What is PPI? 
Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) is designed to cover the monthly repayments of your loan or credit card, if you are made unemployed, have an accident, become sick or die.
HSBC (previously Midland Bank) stopped selling Payment Protection Insurance in its branches in December 2007 and throughout the rest of its business during 2008. Prior to that time, 5 main products had been sold:
Personal Loan Protection Plan
Cardholder Repayment Plan
Flexiloan Repayment Protection
Mortgage Repayment Protection
Small Business Loan Protection
Other brands within the HSBC Group 

Within the HSBC Group, PPI was also sold by M&S Bank, first direct, HFC Bank and John Lewis Financial Services. If you think you may have been sold PPI by one of these companies, visit their PPI page or see the HFC Bank Limited sections below;
M&S BankM&S Bank This link will open in a new window
first directfirst direct This link will open in a new window
John Lewis Financial Services
HFC Bank LimitedHFC Bank Limited This link will open in a new window
In June 2013 accounts owned by HFC Bank Limited, Endeavour Personal Finance and Sterling Credit Limited were transferred and are now being serviced by HSBC Bank plc. You can find a list of HFC Bank Limited’s trading names below.
If you need to contact us about PPI taken with HFC Bank Limited, you can write to us at:
HSBC, PPI Complaints
PO Box 5055,
Coventry,
CV3 9FB
Or call us on:

0345 602 3793
Lines are open from 09:00 to 17:00 Monday to Friday. We may monitor or record calls.
Beneficial Finance 
Household Bank
Marbles
GM Card
Hamilton Direct Bank
HFC Direct
Endeavour Personal Loans
EPF
EPF Homeloans
EPF Direct
Sterling Credit
Sterling Loans
Commission complaints 
When a bank, lender or other provider sold a PPI policy, the PPI provider would pay them 'commission' for arranging or making the sale. The money for this commission would come out of the payments you made for the PPI policy.
In 2017, the FCA introduced new rules that meant customers could complain that their lender earned a high level of commission from the sale of PPI but didn’t make this clear when it was sold.
A 'high level of commission' typically means it was more than half of what you've paid for your PPI policy, but you do not need to know how much was earned from the sale of PPI.
Commission complaints are also impacted by the PPI complaint deadline. If you feel you had exceptional circumstances which have prevented you from making a commission complaint, please contact us on 0800 085 2451 (Text phone 18001 08457 125 563). You can also submit a complaint via our Online complaint formOnline complaint form This link will open in a new window. In the form, please describe the exceptional circumstances which meant you couldn't submit a complaint by 29 August 2019.
Where else can I get more information and help on PPI complaints? 
For more information regarding PPI complaints, please contact us on the below to tell us what additional help you may need. 
By Post
HSBC PPI Complaints
PO Box 6177
Coventry
CV3 9HP
By Phone 
Personal Banking Customers: 0800 085 2451 (Text phone 18001 08457 125 563)
From outside the UK: 00 44 1226 261 010
Non HSBC customers: 03456 040 626
Lines are open from 8:00 to 20:00 every day except for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Years Day.
Calls may be monitored or recorded.
By Online
Submit a complaint via our Online Complaint FormOnline Complaint Form This link will open in a new window (within the form, please describe the exceptional circumstance\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/payment-protection-insurance/
########Top of main content 
The benefits of financial advice 
New to investing but not sure where to start? Getting financial advice could help simplify things and save you time – allowing you feel more confident in your investment decisions. 
Investing gives your money a greater potential to grow above and beyond inflation, compared to saving. But you should be prepared to invest for at least 5 years. There is also a risk you may not get back what you put in.
There’s a fee involved for investment advice and usually a minimum investment amount. But don’t let that put you off. 
Here are some of the benefits of investment advice. 
It could save you time 
Building up the knowledge to make an informed decision on what to do with your money can take time and effort. By delegating the research to a financial adviser, it could free up your time and energy to spend on something else.
It could simplify things 
If you’ve never invested before, it’s easy to get overwhelmed by the size of the task. Investment terms can also feel like a different language sometimes. 
Whether you take advice online or with a financial adviser, it can help make things more manageable. You’ll be asked a set of simple questions to clarify what’s relevant, before having your options helpfully streamlined for you.
Explore: Investment advice options with HSBC
Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
It could help you take decisive action 
While having a lot of choice can be amazing, it can also be stressful.
The more options we have, the harder it can be for our brains to process, the higher the potential for anxiety and the slower our decision making can be. 
Consulting a professional can be a great way to avoid overthinking and take action. Why is that so important? Because when it comes to investing in your future, time is money. The sooner you start investing, the longer you could potentially leave your money to grow – giving it greater potential. 
Remember – there is always a degree of risk involved.
It could increase your confidence 
When you research something yourself, you may doubt whether you’ve come to the right conclusion. You know that, ‘What if I missed something?’ feeling. 
When you receive a professional investment recommendation, you can feel reassured that the investment decision you’re taking is a well-informed one that’s right for you.
It could help you feel supported 
Financial decisions can be difficult to make on your own. And they’re rarely just about you. Either directly or indirectly, they can also affect your partner or family, which can add to the pressure.
The pace of modern life means our brains are constantly being pulled into short-term activities, which creates short-term thinking. And that makes it difficult to focus on what you want your future to look like – and what it will take to get you there.
By consulting a trusted adviser about those longer-term decisions, including the risk and time commitments involved, it can feel like someone’s got your back. And not just anyone. Their professional and objective view means you’re benefiting from their knowledge and experience.
What type of advice can you get from HSBC? 
Guides to help you make investment decisions 
Take a look at our latest guides to learn more about investing – from how to get started to the different ways to invest.
Bespoke financial plan 
If your needs are more complex, you may want to consider bespoke financial advice.
HSBC current account holders who have £100,000 or more in savings and investments – can book an appointment to receive a full financial review.
From protecting your family to planning your retirement, we’ll spend time getting to know your current plans and future ambitions.
Our financial advisers can make recommendations from a wide range of products that we’ve hand-picked from selected providers, including HSBC. 
Additional eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Want to choose your own investments? 
Not everyone wants or needs financial advice. If you're happy making your own investment decisions, you can invest in funds or in shares by opening an InvestDirect sharedealing account. 
Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Back to top 
What next? 
Understand more about investing 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Investing for beginners 
10 steps to becoming a DIY investor 
Saving vs investing\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/the-real-benefits-of-financial-advice/
########Top of main content 
What is income protection? 
Income protection is an insurance policy that pays you a regular income if you’re unable to work because of injury or illness. 
Sometimes life has a nasty surprise in store that can knock us sideways. If something happened to you that meant you couldn’t work, you’d need a plan of action to keep your finances happy.
If you’re lucky, your employer would provide you with sick pay. But not all do – and even if they do, it could be limited, so it’s worth checking your benefits. 
But what if you don’t have a generous boss? Perhaps you’re a homemaker or self-employed? Then income protection could make sense for you.
How does income protection work? 
Income protection will pay you a percentage of your income if you can’t work because you’re ill or injured. 
Some policies can also provide specialist rehabilitation services that can be tailored to you – to help you get back on your feet and into work. Rehabilitation providers specialise in helping customers affected by certain claims, such as stress, anxiety, and depression, as well as musculoskeletal problems, including back pain and cancer. This means you can get the practical help and the treatment you need without delay.
Depending on the type of policy you have, a regular income may be paid for a fixed period or continue until you return to work or reach retirement age. Most income protection policies are quite flexible, with options that allow you to tailor a monthly premium to suit your needs – and your pocket.
While you’re not being paid by your employer, your protection insurance can make sure you receive a regular income to help you financially. 
Keep in mind – income protection policies don’t usually cover redundancy. So it’s important to have an emergency fund to fall back on in case you lose your income for other reasons. 
4 reasons to consider income protection insurance 
1. It’s a safety net when you can’t work 
The idea is to give you the financial cushion you need to cover your outgoings until you’re able to go back to work or until you retire. As income protection policies are based on your regular income, it doesn’t matter if you have 1 job or 3, have a fixed contract or are self-employed, you’d receive a fixed percentage of what you earn.
2. It protects the essentials 
Sadly, the bills don’t stop just because your wages aren’t coming in. 
Income protection could enable you pay your monthly mortgage or rent payments, as well as utility bills and everyday items, such as food and toiletries.
3. It could help cover the fun stuff too 
Just because you can’t work for a time, it shouldn’t mean you have to give up all the fun things in life. Having a monthly income coming in could help to pay for occasional meals out and day trips. After all, raising your joy is an important part of recovery.
4. It gives you that breathe-easy feeling 
Income protection might seem a little strange at first. Like any insurance, it’s a thing you buy and yet you seemingly don’t get anything for your money unless you need to make a claim. But it earns its keep in another way by acting as a permanent comfort blanket. You can rest easier, knowing it’s there if you need it.
Help and support with choosing an insurance policy 
We all know we need a financial plan to protect those we love. But how much cover is enough? And which policy to choose? 
To help you decide, you could talk to one of our financial advisers. Eligibility criteria apply. 
They’ll spend time getting to know your situation. Then they'll recommend a competitive policy that's right for you – from a carefully selected panel of providers.
You’re under no obligation to follow our recommendations – and you won’t pay a penny for receiving our protection advice.
If you decide to take out the recommended policy, you’ll pay for the cost of the policy, and we’ll receive a commission from the protection provider. You’ll find details about this in the policy’s key features document. But don’t worry, your adviser will discuss all this with you during a friendly, no-strings chat before you begin.
As with all insurance policies, terms and conditions, exclusions and limitations will apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Income Protection 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Do you need life insurance? 
What is critical illness insurance? 
What to consider when buying insurance\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/protecting-your-lifestyle/
########Top of main content 
Contactless 
You can make contactless payments up to £100. For extra security, you may sometimes need to insert your card and enter your PIN to make the transaction.

For a reminder of your credit or debit card PIN, just log on to our mobile app.
Close banner 
Discover more about contactless 
Our debit and credit cards are now contactless and will work at contactless readers throughout the UK allowing you to pay for low value items with a simple tap.
Contactless is: 
Fast 
There's no need to enter your PIN or sign for everyday purchases under £100. Simply touch the reader with your contactless card to pay in seconds. 
Easy 
No need to find cash and no hanging around at the till for change or receipts unless you need one. 
Secure 
Contactless payments are safe and secure. You are 100% protected against fraud, just like you are with Chip & PIN payments. For extra security you may occasionally be asked to enter your PIN. 
How to use contactless 
Look for the contactless symbol when paying for items up to the value of £100
Touch your contactless card against the reader
A beep or green light shows your payment is being processed. For extra security, the contactless transaction may occasionally be declined, so just insert your card into the reader and enter your PIN or sign.
Your payment is approved
Where can I use it? 
Simply look for the contactless logo which can be found in many popular places, or you can visit the Visa websitethe Visa website This link will open in a new window for a more detailed search on which shops in your area accept contactless.
Note: You need to make at least one Chip and Pin/Signature transaction to enable the Contactless functionality on your card.
Other payment methods
Apple Pay
Google Pay
Samsung Pay
Frequently Asked Questions 
About contactless technology 
What is contactless technology?
Contactless technology is a fast and easy way to pay for goods and services under £100 without entering a PIN. Contactless cards have an embedded antenna in the plastic so that when it is used at a contactless reader it securely transmits purchase information to and from the contactless reader. All you have to do is place your contactless card over the contactless reader to make the payment.
How does contactless technology benefit me?
It's faster and easier than other types of payment:
You don't always have to carry cash or worry about looking for exact change when making small value everyday purchases at participating retailers
You don't have to enter your PIN for payments under £100. You may have to on some occasions as a security measure to verify that you, the authorised cardholder, are still in possession of the card.
There's no need to queue for so long as contactless speeds up the time it takes to make a payment
You are in control because your card never has to leave your hand when making a payment at the reader
You will have a record of all your everyday purchases on your account statement
How do I know if my card comes with contactless technology?
If you see the contactless symbol on your card it means that your card comes with this payment technology.
How can I get a contactless card?
Customers will automatically be issued a contactless card when their card is next renewed or replaced (subject to eligibility).
Making contactless payments 
How do I use my contactless card?
Look for the contactless symbol when paying for items up to the value of £100
Touch the reader with your contactless card
Confirm successful payment when you see the green light and hear the beep. For extra security you may occasionally be asked to enter your PIN.
Where can I use my contactless card?
You can use your contactless card wherever you see the contactless symbol. There are already lots of retailers in the UK that offer contactless payments.
Can I use contactless to get cash out at an ATM?
No, you can't get cash out of an ATM using contactless.
Can I use contactless to get cash back?
No, cash back is not available on contactless transactions. If you wish to receive cash back you can still use your card to make a standard Chip and PIN transaction.
How close does my card need to be to the reader?
You should hold your contactless card within a few centimetres of the contactless terminal. If you choose to keep multiple cards in your wallet or purse while paying, only one card will be read by the contactless reader. If you have multiple cards in your wallet or purse, the card read by the reader and the account charged may not necessarily be the one you intended. The surest way is to remove the card you want to use from your wallet or purse and hold it against the contactless reader.
Is there a limit on the value of goods I can purchase with my contactless card?
You can use your contactless card to pay for items up to the value of £100. For purchases over £100 you will need to enter your PIN.
Are there any fees for paying with contactless?
There are no additional fees for using your contactless card. However, standard fees and charges do apply.
How do I know when the payment has been made?
The card reader will indicate that the payment has been made - a green light and beep indicates successful payment.
Will I receive a receipt for my transaction?
Contactless payments are designed to let you make low value transactions quickly and conveniently. If you'd like a receipt to confirm the contactless transaction, just ask the merchant when you pay.
I carry more than one card in my wallet, which one will be used if I tap my wallet to the reader?
It's always a good idea to take your contactless card out of your wallet to touch the reader - this will make sure the right contactless card is debited. If more than one is placed on the reader, a red light will be shown on the reader to tell you the payment has not completed.
Can I use my contactless card abroad?
Yes, you can use your contactless card abroad just as you can in the UK. Contactless transactions will be accepted wherever the\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/contactless/
########Top of main content 
Unknown transaction on your bank statement 
I don't recognise a transaction 
Following up on a dispute? We're currently working through a large number of claims and will get back to you as soon as possible. Please only call if it’s urgent.
I recognise a transaction but want to dispute it 
I don't recognise a transaction 
If there’s a transaction on your statement you don’t recognise, here are some quick checks that might help you get to the bottom of it. 
Tips to help you identify the transaction 
Same time? Same place? 
Take a look at any other transactions from around the same time. This may remind you of where you were when the transaction that you don't recognise was made.
Think about exchange rates 
If the transaction you don't recognise was made in a foreign currency, the final amount could be different to the amount at the time of purchase.
Look out for additional charges 
Some retailers, such as hotels, taxis, airlines or hire cars, can add additional surcharges.
Double-check your receipts and your inbox 
Dig out your receipts to see if you have any from the same day and for the same amount. You may also have received a confirmation or receipt by email - this might show a different retailer name than the one on your statement. 
Check the retailer's name 
Retailers sometimes trade under different names, so the one on your statement might not be what you expect. Try entering the retailer's name into a search engine to find out more.
Ask another account holder 
If someone shares your account, they may have made the transaction.
Check repeat payments 
Could this be an auto-renewing subscription or ongoing payment that you’ve set up in the past?
Free trials 
If you've signed up for a free trial recently, check the free trial period and terms and conditions. The free trial may have expired and you may now be paying for goods or services.
If you’re still not sure, our list of frequently disputed transactions may help 
See our most frequently disputed transactions 
WHO – William Hill Online
Amazon Prime – video and delivery subscription service
H3G – 3 Mobile Network
Credit Expert – Experian
Norton & McAfee – antivirus software
TFL – Transport for London
WLY Complete Save – Monthly voucher
DR Cardholder – Disputes being reversed
Use of Funds Public – fees from the recipient bank when an international payment has been processed
There are a number of ways credits and debits can be made to and from your account. These are shown on your statement as:

))) - Contactless debit card payment
ATM - Cash machine
BP - Bill payment
Still don't recognise a transaction? 
You can Chat with us to raise your dispute: 
Log on to our mobile app.
Select the 'Support’ tab and then ‘Chat with us’.
Or:
Log on to online banking
Click on the Chat pop up button in the bottom right.
Alternatively, you can call us 03457 404 404, or if you're abroad on +44 1226 261 010.
Premier customers can call us on 03457 707 070.
Please don’t call unless you think there’s been a fraudulent card transaction, payment or authorised payment scam.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/transaction-support/
########Top of main content 
What is Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act? 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act can give you extra protection when you buy goods or services with your credit card. 
What does Section 75 cover? 
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, if you paid for something between £100 and £30,000 with a credit card – your purchases are protected if the supplier breaches its contract or misrepresents the goods. This means you’re covered if:
the product is faulty 
the product doesn’t match the description 
the product or service is not delivered 
the supplier goes out of business 
Even if you just made part of the purchase with your credit card (such as a deposit), you’ll still be able to make a claim – as long as the total purchase price for a single item is between £100 and £30,000.
What’s not covered by Section 75? 
If the total purchase price is under £100 or over £30,000, it will not be covered by Section 75. This sounds simple, but can be complicated in some instances. 
When you purchase multiple items, to be eligible, the cash price attached to a single item will need to be over £100 and under £30,000. For example, if you buy two tickets for £60 each, these would not be covered. 
Delivery is also not included. If you bought a ticket for £95, and paid a £10 delivery fee, this would not be covered as the cash price for the ticket itself was below the £100 threshold.
Other purchases that are not covered include:
hire purchases 
payments through third parties (such as a third party payment provider) 
cash advances 
Section 75 may also not cover you if the supplier gives you the option to re-book or provides a credit voucher.
Can you claim for travel bookings under Section 75? 
If flights, package holidays or events are cancelled, it’s important to refer to your contract. Read and understand the supplier’s terms relating to cancellations, refunds or re-booking in the first instance. This will help you set out your dispute or claim and could enable you to get a resolution quicker. 
If your booking isn’t cancelled, check the Foreign and Commonwealth Office’s (FCO) current travel restrictions for guidance and advice. You may need to wait until any restrictions or bans are extended before being able to make a Section 75 claim. 
If the supplier gives you the option to re-book or take a credit voucher, you won’t be able to raise a dispute or claim under Section 75, unless this is in breach of the supplier’s terms and conditions.
If the supplier stops trading or becomes insolvent and cancels, but doesn’t offer a refund or re-booking, you may be able to make a Section 75 claim.
Explore: Should you get travel insurance?
How do you raise a dispute or claim under Section 75? 
To raise a dispute or claim under Section 75, you’ll need to be able to tell us:
the date of the transaction(s), which relates to your dispute 
the amount of transaction(s), which relates to your dispute (we may ask you for evidence of payments) 
the date you were meant to travel, or the date goods and services should have been delivered on 
when and how you contacted the supplier (we may ask you for evidence or details/dates) 
what the supplier’s terms and conditions say you're entitled to (we may ask you to provide a copy) 
details of when you should have had the refund (if due) according to the terms and conditions (we may ask you to provide a copy) 
We’ll review your case, but will ask for evidence that you have tried to resolve the dispute with the supplier and attempted to recover your loss.
Find out more about disputing a transaction
What is a chargeback and how does it work? 
Chargebacks are a way for us to try and get the money back directly from the supplier’s bank, and apply for both debit and credit card transactions. 
Chargebacks may be done if: 
you don’t get the goods or services you paid for, including where the company stops trading 
goods or services you purchased are faulty, counterfeit or defective 
you’re charged the wrong amount, or charged twice by mistake 
you’re charged for a repeat payment after cancelling a subscription 
You should contact us to make a claim as soon as you find out there’s a problem, or have concerns about a card payment. 
We usually need to start the chargeback process within 120 days of the date of the transaction, or when you were due to receive the goods or services. There’s no minimum payment amount for a chargeback.
Advantages of raising a dispute through a chargeback 
If a valid chargeback right is available, the chargeback scheme allows your bank to raise a dispute against the transaction on your behalf. 
It can be a quick and efficient way of getting a refund from the supplier’s bank, which doesn’t affect your Section 75 rights.
Provided you meet the criteria for a Section 75 claim, you may still rely on your Section 75 rights if the chargeback is not successful.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Dispute a transaction 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Credit card protection 
When to use a credit vs debit card 
Latest scam warnings\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/what-can-you-claim-section-75/
########Disputes help tool Step 1 Disputes help tool Step 1 
Disputes help tool Step 2 Disputes help tool Step 2 
Disputes help tool Step 3 Disputes help tool Step 3 
Disputes help tool Step 4 Disputes help tool Step 4 
Disputes help tool Step 5 Disputes help tool Step 5 
Disputes help tool Step 6 Disputes help tool Step 6 
Disputes help tool Step 7 Disputes help tool Step 7 
Results Results 
Step 1 
What is your issue about? 
Tell us what your issue is about 
Before a dispute can be raised the transaction must be fully processed and no longer pending. Any pending transactions will show in the mobile app or in online banking under ‘pending’ at the top of your transactions screen 
Goods or service issue 
Order not received 
Flight or holiday booking 
Cash machine withdrawal 
Payment taken twice 
Wrong amount charged 
Repeat payment or subscription 
Refund not given 
Step 2 
Is it a Direct Debit, bill payment, standing order or Open Banking payment? 
Tell us if it's a Direct Debit, bill payment, standing order or Open Banking payment 
These payments show as DD, BP, SO or OBP on statements 
Yes 
No 
Before you raise a dispute 
Contact the retailer first – they can usually resolve your issue much faster than we can.
Check if:
they've confirmed your order
you've received a dispatch note
there's an update in your junk email folder
you've been sent a courier tracking link 
your order has been delivered to a neighbour
Did these checks resolve your issue? 
Tell us if these checks resolved your issue 
Yes 
No 
Before you raise a dispute 
Contact the retailer first – they can usually resolve your issue much faster than we can.
Check if:
they've added taxes, service or card fees
the amount has changed due to currency exchange
several purchases have been bundled together in one payment
Did these checks resolve your issue? 
Tell us if these checks resolved your issue 
Yes 
No 
Step 3 
Did you pay by debit or credit card? 
Tell us if you paid by debit or credit card 
Card payments may show as VIS (Visa), MC (Mastercard) or ))) (contactless) on statements 
Yes 
No 
Is it a Direct Debit, bill payment, standing order or Open Banking payment? 
Tell us if it's a Direct Debit, bill payment, standing order or Open Banking payment 
These payments show as DD, BP, SO or OBP on statements 
Yes 
No 
Who cancelled the booking? 
Tell us who who cancelled the booking 
This might have been due to a health issue, cancelled flight or travel restrictions 
I cancelled it 
The travel company cancelled it 
Do you recognise the payments you'd like to dispute? 
Tell us if you recognise the payments 
You may recognise them but the retailer's charged the wrong amount or took payment after you cancelled 
Yes 
No 
Why do you need a refund? 
Tell us why you need a refund 
I'd like my money back instead of a credit note or void receipt 
I've cancelled under the retailer's terms and conditions 
I've cancelled within the 14-day distance selling cooling-off period 
Step 4 
Did you pay by debit or credit card? 
Tell us if you paid by debit or credit card 
Card payments may show as VIS (Visa), MC (Mastercard) or ))) (contactless) on statements 
Yes 
No 
Have you asked the retailer or HSBC to stop these payments? 
Tell us if you've asked the retailer or HSBC to stop these payments 
Yes 
No 
Before you raise a dispute 
Contact the retailer first – they can usually resolve your issue much faster than we can.
Things to check:
Are there refund restrictions?
Have you been offered vouchers or a cheque?
Have you allowed time for your refund to be processed?
Have you been sent an email about the refund?
Did these checks resolve your issue? 
Tell us if these checks resolved your issue 
Yes 
No 
Step 5 
Has the retailer made any credits into your account recently? 
Tell us if the retailer has made any credits into your account recently 
Yes 
No 
Do you want us to stop further payments being taken? 
Tell us if you want us to stop further payments being taken 
We can only stop future payments, not past ones 
Yes 
No 
Step 6 
Do these credits resolve your dispute? 
Tell us if these credits resolve your dispute 
The credits could be a refund for an incorrectly charged item on your statement 
Yes 
No 
Is your account overdrawn due to these payments? 
Tell us if you're overdrawn due these payments 
Yes 
No 
Step 7 
Is your account overdrawn due to these payments? 
Tell us if you're overdrawn due these payments 
Yes 
No 
Thanks, for letting us know 
Here's what we've found 
You've told us about an issue with goods or a service. 
You've told us about an order you haven't received. 
You've told us about an issue with a flight or holiday booking. 
You've told us about an issue with a cash withdrawal. 
You've told us about being charged twice for a payment. 
You've told us you've been charged the wrong amount. 
You've told us about an issue with a repeat payment or subscription. 
You've told us you haven't been given a refund. 
Error message 
Continue 
Continue 
Back 
© Copyright HSBC Group 2002-2023. All rights reserved
This website is designed for use in the United Kingdom.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/disputes-tool/
########Top of main content 
What's the difference between fraud and a scam? 
Criminal schemes designed to part you from your money are getting more sophisticated all the time. Knowing the facts can help you protect yourself. But what's the best way to stop scams and fraud before they happen, and what's the difference between the two?
What is fraud? 
Fraud is suspicious activity on your account that you didn't know about and didn't authorise.
Examples of fraud include:
unauthorised use of your credit or debit card 
bank account takeover - someone accesses your account without you knowing
identity theft - a fraudster uses your details to open accounts in your name 
What is a scam? 
A scam involves you making or authorising the payment yourself. You're persuaded to buy a fake item, hand over your security code or transfer a sum of money, not realising you're being conned by a criminal.
Scams can be very convincing and anyone can get caught out. 
Examples of scams include: 
instructions to transfer money to another account (e.g. a 'safe account')
fake investment opportunities
requests for money from a scammer who has befriended you or struck up a romance online
'to good to be true' deals that must be paid for by bank transfer
Find out about the latest scams.
How can I protect myself from fraud and scams? 
One way to protect yourself is to safeguard your personal details online. Be careful what information you share. Set your social media profiles to private - only let friends see what you post.
You should also store physical statements securely. When it comes to disposing of them, do so carefully, ideally shredding them, or blacking out your personal and financial details first.
If you receive a call, text or email asking about money, or security details, don't respond or click on any links. Stop and think. An unexpected call or message is often the first sign of a scam.
Where to find more information 
Visit our Fraud and security centre for more on fraud and scams. Or download our scams leaflet.
If you want further information, here are some other organisations who offer advice on guarding against financial crime:
Action FraudAction Fraud This link will open in a new window
You can report fraud or cybercrime to Action Fraud, a national reporting centre run by the City of London Police, working alongside the National Fraud Intelligence Bureau.
CifasCifas This link will open in a new window
This not-for-profit fraud prevention organisation was first launched in 1988 as the Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System.
Cyber AwareCyber Aware This link will open in a new window
Previously known as Cyber Streetwise, this awareness campaign run by the Government, aims to help small businesses and individuals protect themselves against online criminals.
Get Safe OnlineGet Safe Online This link will open in a new window
Get Safe Online offers free security advice to help protect people from fraud and other issues encountered online.
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) This link will open in a new window
You can report scams to the FCA, an independent public body which regulates 58,000 financial services businesses in the UK.
Take FiveTake Five This link will open in a new window
A government-backed national campaign offering advice on how to guard against fraud.
Back to top\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/fraud-guide/difference-between-fraud-and-scams/
########Top of main content 
Common scams 
Don't get caught out by a scam. Find out how to spot them and what you can do to avoid them 
Take me straight to 
Authorised push payment (APP) scams 
Purchase scams 
Investment scams 
Cryptocurrency scams 
Romance scams 
Payment diversion scams 
Money mules 
Pension scams 
Holiday scams 
QR code scams 
Coronavirus scams 
Authorised push payment (APP) scams 
Authorised push payment (APP) scams happen when criminals persuade you to make a bank transfer. They'll usually pretend to be from a reputable business or organisation and try to pressure you into acting quickly. This is so you don't have time to realise it's a scam. 
We were among the first banks to sign up to a voluntary code to combat APP scamsvoluntary code to combat APP scams This link will open in a new window.
To help protect yourself, find out more about typical APP scams and the warning signs to watch out for.
Purchase scams 
Purchase scams happen when you’re paying for an item or service. The item doesn't arrive, or you don't receive the service and your money is lost.
Typically, these scams:
ask you to send money via bank transfer rather than using a card or cheque
offer a too-good-to-be-true deal or discount
have 'limited availability', or are a 'special offer' to encourage you to act quickly
persuade you to send money before receiving a service
are advertised on social media or other online marketplaces, or in some cases through legitimate looking websites that have actually been set up by fraudsters
Remember to:
use safe sites when shopping online
use safe ways to pay, such as your debit or credit card 
check the returns and cancellations policy
research the retailer online to make sure they’re legitimate
stop and think - would you be willing to send cash in the post for an item you've ordered?
research and check the validity of the item before paying - ask to see it if possible
approach an independent professional to authenticate the goods or services you're purchasing
Read our real-life case study of how one HSBC customer lost almost £1,000 to a purchase scam.
Investment scams 
Criminals may contact you with investment opportunities offering guaranteed, or very high, returns. 
They'll usually cold call you, and in order to convince you, use false testimonials or fake celebrity endorsements. They may set up spoof websites and fake companies that have similar (or the same) names as genuine investment organisations.
They can produce convincing marketing materials and might refer to current news to make the opportunity seem realistic.
If it seems to good to be true, it probably is.
Cryptocurrency scams 
Cryptocurrency is a digital asset that can be traded or exchanged online. 
It's unregulated, highly speculative and there's no investor protection.
Cryptocurrency has increased in popularity over the last few years, with some people seeing high returns on investments.
However, criminals are using this as an opportunity to steal your money.
They may do this by:
contacting you by phone or on social media platforms
advertising fake investments that don’t really exist or have falsely advertise high returns
convincing you to sign up with a cryptocurrency provider with your identity documents to open a trading account or online wallet
persuading you to invest and set up fake but realistic-looking websites and portfolios
Remember to:
check how it works - it may differ from a traditional investment
stay in control - never let anyone set up a cryptocurrency wallet, upload ID documents or manage investments for you
don't share access - fraudsters may ask you to download software so they can access your devices and move money without your knowledge
spot familiar tricks - you may be asked to move money and asked to mislead your bank about the reason for making the payment. Fraudsters know payments for investments may attract more scrutiny and will try to avoid it
don't fall for fake endorsements - fraudsters may impersonate famous personalities on social media or messaging groups, to make their offer look legitimate
don't be pressured - high value cases even give a return in the short term, to convince you to invest more. Then, after larger payments are sent, you suffer even greater losses
You can find out more about cryptocurrency and read a real-life case study on our cryptocurrency fraud page.
Romance scams 
This type of scam begins with a fast-moving, online relationship.
The scammer will usually use a fake picture and profile. They'll then come up with reasons they can't meet in person, for example saying they're in the armed forces or they work overseas.
They’ll go to great lengths to build a rapport and form an emotional bond, then they'll appeal to you for money, perhaps for travel, or some kind of emergency. 
To avoid falling victim to one of these scams, never send money to someone you’ve only met online. And don’t agree to send money on their behalf, as it could be the proceeds of crime.
Find out how to avoid romance scams.
Read a recent case study of how one woman was conned out of £100,000.
Payment diversion scams 
Criminals can hack and monitor your emails, and when payments are due, they’ll send their own email that looks like a genuine message from a real company.
They'll tell you that the bank details for your payment have changed, and give you the new details to send your payments to. This could be a house deposit to your solicitor, or a payment to a contractor for home improvements, for example.
If you're contacted about a change of payment details, always: 
call the company on a number you're sure is genuine to confirm
check for poor spelling and grammar within the email – this usually signals a scam
check the sender's email address is correct
Back to top 
Money mules 
Scammers prey on those who are low on funds to act as ‘money mules’. This means you allow money to be transferred through your bank account in exchange for payment. 
Hard-up students are often targeted, with job adv\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/fraud-guide/common-scams/
########Top of main content 
Cryptocurrency fraud: real life story 
Criminals are using cryptocurrency as an opportunity to steal your money. 
Cryptocurrency is a digital asset that can you trade or exchange online. It's grown in popularity in recent years and some investors see high returns.
But cryptocurrency is high risk, very volatile and not regulated, so there's no protection for investors if things go wrong.
Here’s the story of one HSBC customer who fell victim to a cryptocurrency scam. The details are fictitious but are based on a genuine case. We've changed all the names, locations and other aspects to protect the anonymity of the people involved.
Started investing in cryptocurrency 
Melissa had banked with HSBC for 11 years and had never tried her hand at investing before.
She followed a well-known influencer on social media, who portrayed himself as a successful businessman with a focus on promoting investments. 
This piqued her interest. When she got in touch with him directly online, he persuaded her to start investing in cryptocurrency. 
Nothing appeared unusual or suspicious at this point. 
The influencer seemed successful and had persuaded other people to invest in similar opportunities.
How she funded the investments 
First, the influencer told Melissa to open an account with a cryptocurrency trading platform to get started.
She also provided the influencer with access to the new account so he could help manage her investments.
Melissa made payments from her HSBC account to her new cryptocurrency account, so she could trade.
The influencer contacted her regularly over 13 months with investment advice. He led her to believe her investment was growing in value. This is something fraudsters do to maintain trust. In that time, Melissa made 160 payments amounting to more than £300,000.
Melissa said: "I actually sold many of my assets to help fund these payments because he kept telling me that I would make significant returns on these investments."
Promising high returns is a common method that fraudsters use to convince customers to invest more.
Coached by the fraudster 
Many of these payments triggered our fraud detection mechanism. As a result, we made several calls to Melissa to discuss the payments. 
However, the fraudster had coached Melissa into how to respond to these calls. Again, it's a common technique that criminals use to try to stop banks from spotting fraud.
Melissa finally found out she'd fallen victim to a cryptocurrency scam when she spoke to a family member about her investments. They searched online for the influencer and the supposed investments. That's when they realised he wasn't legitimate and there were a number of scam warnings.
By the time Melissa reported it to us, the fraudster had already moved the funds out of her account and her money was gone.
Explore: Latest scam warnings
How to avoid cryptocurrency investment scams 
Fraudsters will try to tempt you into investing in cryptocurrency by:
contacting you by phone or on social media platforms 
advertising investments that don’t really exist or have falsely high returns 
convincing you to sign up with a cryptocurrency provider with your identity documents to open a trading account or online wallet 
setting up fake but realistic-looking websites and portfolios 
asking you to share access to your account 
asking you to download remote access software 
What you should do:
check how it works - it may differ from a traditional investment 
stay in control - never let anyone set up a cryptocurrency wallet, upload ID documents or manage investments for you 
don't share access - fraudsters may ask you to download software so they can access your devices and move money without your knowledge 
spot familiar tricks - you may be asked to move money and asked to mislead your bank about the reason for making the payment. Fraudsters know these payments may attract more scrutiny and will try to avoid it 
don't fall for fake endorsements - fraudsters may impersonate famous personalities on social media or messaging groups, to make their offer look legitimate 
don't be pressured - high value cases even give a return in the short term, to convince you to invest more. Then, after larger payments are sent, you suffer even greater losses 
Explore: HSBC Fraud and Cyber Awareness app
Back to top 
What next? 
Find out more about cryptocurrency scams 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Romance scams: case study 
Latest scam warnings 
Cyber security: how to bank safely\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/cryptocurrency-fraud-real-life-story/
########Top of main content 
Who can certify my documents? 
Please only continue with the steps below if our Safeguard team has asked you to do so. If you’re not sure about submitting your documents, please get in touchget in touch with HSBC.
Table of contents 
UK customers
I'm a UK customer. What can I show for identification and proof of address?
I'm a UK customer. How do I get my documents certified?
EU customers
I'm an EU customer, applying from outside the UK. What can I show for identification and proof of address?
I'm an EU customer applying from outside the UK. How can I certify my documents?
Other customers outside the UK
I'm a non-EU customer, applying from outside the UK. What can I show for identification and proof of address?
I'm a non-EU customer, applying from outside the UK. How do I get my documents certified?
I'm a UK customer. What can I show for identification and proof of address? 
Identification
You can provide 1 document from this list. Make sure your document is both current and a certified copy (not the original).
your full passport
your full or provisional UK photocard driving licence (you can use your UK licence for both identification and proof of address)
your full UK paper driving licence
your National Identity Card (only acceptable for EEA or Swiss National customers)
travel documents that are issued in the UK by the Home Office
HM Revenue & Customs tax notification (dated within the last 4 months)
Benefits Agency letter (Department of Work and Pensions (DWP), Jobcentre Plus, Child Benefit Office, Veterans Agency) confirming your rights to benefits and dated within the last 4 months
your current Northern Ireland voter's card
Proof of address
You can provide 1 document from this list. Make sure your document is both recent and certified.
a council tax bill for current billing year, including reminders and demand letters dated within the last 4 months
a utility bill (e.g. gas, electricity, oil or broadband bill) dated within the last 4 months
a water bill for current billing period (including reminders and demand letters) dated within the last 4 months
a telephone bill, dated within the last 4 months. However, mobile phone bills aren't accepted
a Sky or cable TV bill, dated within the last 4 months
your current full or provisional UK photocard driving licence (you can use your UK licence for both identification and proof of address)
your UK bank, building society or credit union statement. This must include your name and your current address, be dated within the last 4 months and show your recent transactions. (This statement can't relate to an HSBC, first direct or M&S Bank account.)
UK credit (or commercial card) statements. These must be dated within the last 4 months and must not relate to a HSBC, First Direct or an M&S account
your mortgage statement from a recognised lender, dated within the last 12 months. However it can't be from HSBC or First Direct
HM Revenue & Customs tax notification, dated within the last 4 months
Benefits Agency letter (Department of Work and Pensions, Jobcentre Plus, Child Benefit Office or Veterans Agency) confirming your rights to benefits, dated within the last 4 months
I'm a UK customer. How do I get my documents certified? 
First of all, you'll need to ask a professional from the following list to certify your documents:
Professional
Airline pilot
Barrister
Chairman/Director of limited company
Chartered accountant
Chartered legal executive
Financial services intermediary
Fire service official
Funeral director
Legal secretary
Licenced conveyance
Paralegal - must be qualified
Solicitor
Public Service and Government
Councillor (local or county)
Civil servant - Permanent
Justice of the Peace
Local government officer
Member of the judiciary
Member of Parliament
Officer in the armed services
Police officer
Post Office official
Salvation Army Officer
Surveyor
Teacher or Lecturer
Healthcare
Dentist
Medical Doctor
Nurse - RGN or RMN
Optician
Pharmacist
Other
Trade Union Officer
Valuer or auctioneer
Warrant Officers
Chief Petty Officers
Person with an honour (such as an OBE or MBE)
Member of the Incorporated Society

Next, ask your chosen certifier to write this on the document they are certifying:
A. For your documents that contain a photo:

I [full name of certifier] confirm that this is an accurate copy of the original and the photo is a true likeness of the person concerned.
B. For your documents that don't contain a photo:

I [full name of certifier] confirm this is an accurate copy of the original.
They should also write:
their signature and full name, printed on the document
their occupation, company (or professional) address and phone number
their professional registration number (if they have one)
the date of certification
Finally, you'll need to send us the certified documents using the pre-paid envelope we provided.
Once your documents are certified, please complete and print the return form (PDF, 50 KB). Then send it with your certified documents to:
Customer Service Centre
BX8 1HB
I'm an EU customer, applying from outside the UK. What can I show for identification and proof of address? 
The information can vary depending on where you live. We'll advise exactly what you'll need to provide. 
Provide one of the documents below and make sure it's certified copy and in date (not the original, in date meaning an expiry date of less than 3 months).
Identification
your current passport or travel document (copies of passports should include all pages that contain signatures, the passport number and any extension dates where applicable)
your current National Identity Card (EEA or Swiss Nationals only)
Proof of address
current UK/EU photocard driving licence, full or provisional
utility bill, dated within the last 4 months
telephone bill, dated within the last 4 months. Mobile phone bills are not acceptable
home broadband, Sky or cable TV bill, dated within the last 4 months
mortgage statement from a recognised lender, dated within the la\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/hsbc-safeguard/faqs/documents-and-certification/
########Top of main content 
Balance After Bills 
No more fingers-crossed finance 
Benefits of Balance After Bills 
Help manage your money until payday 
See the bills you have upcoming for the month with the handy bills calendar 
Download the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app 
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
What is Balance After Bills? 
Balance After Bills helps you budget successfully from one payday to the next. It shows you how much you could have left for the month ahead, once scheduled bills (standing orders and Direct Debits) are taken into account.
Based on your regular bills, we estimate what you'll owe for the month ahead. Then we subtract it from your current balance to show you what you could have left. That way, you get your Balance After Bills at a glance.
Note: Balance After Bills is only an indication of what you could have left. You should always make sure you have enough funds to pay your bills. 
Explore Balance After Bills 
1. Log in to the app
Select the current account you’d like to use for Balance After Bills. Please note: it must have at least one Standing order or Direct Debit.
2. Activate
Click on 'Balance After Bills Activate' option to view the Balance After Bills overview screen.
3. Overview
You’ll see an overview of what bills are included in your cycle and how it’s calculated. Once you’re happy, select ‘Activate Balance After Bills’ and you’re all set up.
4. Complete
Your Balance After Bills cycle is automatically set to the first of the month but you can amend this by selecting the three dots in the top right hand corner.
Frequently Asked Questions
Which accounts can I set up Balance After Bills on? 
Balance After Bills can be applied to any eligible HSBC current account. An eligible account is any account that you pay Direct Debits and / or standing orders from.
You can set up Balance After Bills on joint accounts. However, if you amend or hide any bills on the joint account, any other parties also using Balance After Bills for that account won’t be able to see the changes you’ve made. The same applies to you if they change any bills on their side. This means you will see differing Balance After Bills amounts on each of your apps. Once any bill is paid, it will update to the actual paid amount, regardless of any amends you or other parties to the account have made.
How do I change the bills cycle reset date? 
Once a month, on the date you’ve chosen, Balance After Bills resets. From this date, all your bills are once again shown as upcoming. They only become marked as 'Paid Bills' as they get paid. Ideally, this cycle will be based on your payday, if you have one. On the day your cycle resets, all bills start to be subtracted from Balance After Bills until they’re all paid at the end of the month.
You can change the monthly cycle start date within the Balance After Bills screen. Simply select the three dots in the top left-hand corner of the Balance After Bills screen and then select 'Change cycle reset date'. You can now pick a new cycle reset date.
Don't worry if you don't get paid monthly or have a regular pay day. Simply select any date in the month that suits you.
Note: Some months have fewer days than others, so your Balance After Bills will be reset on the last day of the month if it ends before your selected date.
What if I’m paid weekly or have multiple income sources? 
Your monthly bills are subtracted from your balance each month, rather than from a single income transaction. This means any income you earn, or any credits coming into your account, will be included in the Balance After Bills calculation. The Balance After Bills calculation will update as these amounts are received.
Can I amend or remove any of my bills? 
You can amend or hide an upcoming bill by tapping on it in the bills calendar. Your Balance After Bills is based on your bills payments from the month before, so we recommend you update any bills you know will change to keep your Balance After Bills as accurate as possible.
Hiding a bill does not cancel the actual payment. You’ll need to arrange this in the usual way.
Please note: You’ll need to unhide the bill for it to re-appear and be used as part of your Balance After Bills calculation in future. Simply select the hidden bill and then 'Include' for this bill to be included in your Balance After Bills again.
Why is my Balance After Bills calculation different to what I expected? 
Based on your regular standing orders and Direct Debits, we estimate what you'll owe next month. There are some updates that may affect the calculation:
if you've recently created or cancelled a Direct Debit or standing order, this won't be reflected in your Balance After Bills until the following monthly cycle
existing Direct Debits and standing orders will reflect the amount you’ve paid last month until the actual bill is paid. The correct amount will then be updated by Balance After Bills. We recommend updating any bills to the correct amount if you know they’re going to be different to the previous month
Back to top Back to top Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/balance-after-bills/
########Top of main content 
How to view and block a subscription 
Table of Contents 
View a subscription
Block a subscription
What is a subscription payment, is it different from a Direct Debit or a standing order? 
Subscription payments, sometimes known as continuous payment authorities or recurring payments, are repeat payments made to a merchant. These payments are made using your card details, such as your card number, rather than your bank account details. They are often used by TV and music streaming services and short term loans.
A Direct Debit gives a merchant the permission to take a payment from your account on a set date using your account details, including your account number and sort code.
A standing order is a repeat payment instruction you can set up from your bank account. These are often used for repeat payments of the same amount, such as rent payments. 
View a subscription 
You can view your active subscription payments which are taken from your UK debit card by going to your mobile banking app current account details page:
Log on to the app.
Go to your account details page.
Select ‘Manage Bills’.
Scroll down to Subscriptions section, more information can be found by tapping on the subscription.
Block a subscription 
You can block your active subscription payment with Mobile Banking:
Log on to the app.
Go to your account details page.
Select ‘Manage Bills’.
Tap on the subscription and click ‘Manage subscription’.
Follow the on-screen instructions.
Block a subscription over the phone
You can also call us on 03457 404 404 between 08:00 and 22:00 every day (except for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day) and we’ll be happy to help.
Important Information 
Blocks last up to 13 months. If the merchant attempts payment after this time, you may be charged.
Putting a block on a subscription doesn’t cancel any agreement or contract you have with a merchant.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/how-to-view-subscriptions/
########Top of main content 
PIN services 
What to do if you've forgotten your PIN, entered it incorrectly or need to change it 
Take me straight to 
I need a PIN reminder 
I've entered an incorrect PIN too many times 
How do I change my PIN? 
I think someone else knows my PIN - what should I do? 
I need a PIN reminder 
Mobile Banking app - view debit or credit card PIN 
1. Log on
Log on to the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
2. Select card
Choose your debit or credit card from your main account list.
3. Manage cards
For debit cards, select 'View more' from the options and then 'Manage cards' from the options. For credit cards, select 'Manage cards'.
4. View PIN
Select ‘View card PIN’ to see your PIN.
Online banking - request a debit or credit card PIN reminder via post 
1. Log on
Log on to online banking.
2. Select 'Account services'
This can be found at the top of the page.
3. Request PIN reminder
Select 'Send me my PIN' under Card services.
4. Chat with us
Select the 'Chat' option, where an agent can arrange for a copy of your PIN to be sent to you.
Log on to online banking Log on to online banking This link will open in a new window 
In branch 
Visit your local HSBC branch and we'll be glad to help you submit a request for a PIN reminder.
Your re-issued PIN should arrive within 7 working days and you can use it as soon as it arrives.
I've entered an incorrect PIN too many times 
In a shop 
Your card will be blocked, including contactless payments, if you enter the wrong PIN 3 times in a row. If you're near an ATM, you can unlock it and use your card again.
1. Locate an ATM
Not all ATMs offer this service - use an HSBC ATM, where possible.
2. Insert your card and enter the correct PIN
If you can't remember your PIN, see our guidance for forgotten PINs.
3. Go to 'PIN services' and 'Unlock' the card
If you don't unlock the card, transactions may still fail.
In an ATM 
If you've locked your PIN at an ATM machine by entering it incorrectly 3 times in a row, you'll need to wait until the following day before you can try again. If you can't remember your PIN, please see the guidance for forgotten PINs first.
You'll get 3 further attempts the next day.
How do I change my PIN? 
You can change your PIN at an ATM. Use an HSBC ATM where possible as not all ATMs offer this service. If you can't remember your PIN, see our guidance for forgotten PINs first.
1. Locate an ATM
Not all ATMs offer this service - use an HSBC ATM, where possible.
2. Insert your card and enter the correct PIN
3. Go to 'PIN services' and then 'Change PIN'
4. Enter your new PIN twice
The new PIN is effective immediately.
I think someone else knows my PIN - what should I do? 
If you think someone else knows your PIN but you still have the card, the quickest way to make it safe is to find an ATM and change your PIN. Please see our guidance for changing your PIN.
If you think someone else knows your PIN and your card is missing, get in touch immediately to report your card lost or stolen. The 24-hour lost and stolen number is 0800 085 2401 or +44 1442 422929 if outside the UK. We'll cancel the card immediately and send you a replacement.
Useful links
Freeze or unfreeze your card
Place a temporary block on your card.
Lost, stolen or damaged cards
What to do if you've lost your card or it's not working.
Activate card
Activate your new card online, by phone or at an ATM.
Fraud and security
Report a suspected fraud or learn how to protect yourself online.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/pin-services/
########Top of main content 
Loan closure 
How to close your HSBC Personal Loan using mobile or online banking 
Repaying your Personal Loan early 
You can view your settlement balance and close your Personal Loan at any time through our Mobile Banking app or online banking. 
Whether you’ve almost repaid your Personal Loan, or you’re thinking of paying it off early, closing your Personal Loan could save you money by paying less interest.
Things to know before closing your Personal Loan 
You can get a detailed breakdown of your balance in the app or online banking from 'View Settlement Balance', before deciding to close your Personal Loan
'View Settlement Balance' gives you a final settlement amount, taking into account any reduction in the interest you’ll need to pay. You’ll need to pay this amount in full to close the loan
Your final settlement amount is valid for 28 days. It includes interest up to then, plus an additional month's interest if your loan is repayable over a period of more than 12 months
You can pay your final settlement amount from any HSBC current account or savings accounts, excluding Fixed Rate Savings and Regular Saver accounts, or from an account with another provider
How to close a Personal Loan with mobile or online banking 
Mobile banking

To close your loan with our mobile app:
Log on using biometrics or your Digital Secure Key.
Select the Personal Loan you want to close.
Tap ‘View settlement balance'.
You can then view a detailed breakdown and instructions on how to close your loan.
Online banking

To close your loan through online banking:
Log on to online banking.
Select the Personal Loan you want to close.
Tap ‘Manage’ and then select ‘View settlement balance’.
You can then view a detailed breakdown and proceed through to closing your loan.
Don’t have the app? 
Register for mobile banking 
Device restrictions apply
Frequently asked questions
Can I close my Personal Loan at any time? 
Yes, provided you have sufficient cleared funds to do so. The funds can be paid from any HSBC current account or savings accounts, excluding Fixed Rate Savings and Regular Saver accounts, or from an account with another provider.
How can I make a payment to close my Personal Loan if I don’t have an HSBC bank account? 
If you don’t have an HSBC account, you’ll be directed to make a bill payment to your loan account.
Where can I find a copy of my settlement statement? 
You can find this in My Documents, which you can access through our Mobile Banking app or online banking.
Are there any changes for paying my Personal Loan off early? 
There’ll usually be a reduction in the amount of interest you need to pay. The way we work this out assumes you repay the loan within 28 days of requesting your settlement balance. If your loan is repayable over a period of more than 12 months, your final settlement amount will include an additional month's interest.
If you are an Advance customer and opened your personal loan on or before 31 March 2021 and you choose to settle your loan early, you won’t be entitled to cashback.
If you choose to settle your loan using funds from your Help to Buy ISA, please be aware that any amount withdrawn won’t count towards your bonus claim. Your Help to Buy ISA has a monthly subscription. Once you've paid in a maximum monthly allowance of £200, any amount withdrawn can’t be replaced in the same calendar month.
Will I receive confirmation once my Personal Loan is closed? 
Once your loan has closed, a closure letter will be generated and saved to My Documents for confirmation. You can access this through our Mobile Banking app or online banking.
Can I close a non-personal loan or other type of loan through the mobile app? 
You can currently only close a personal loan via the mobile app. If you need to close a non-personal loan or other type of loan, you will need to give us notice in writing, by visiting a branch or by calling us on 03457 404 404.
Explore more
Online money management tools
How to manage your bills
Improve your financial fitness
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/loan-closure/
########Top of main content 
Should you increase your credit card limit? 
Want to borrow more on your credit card? Here are some things to consider before you request a credit card limit increase. 
How do you plan on using your credit limit? 
Before you make the request, it’s important to think about why you want to increase your credit limit. For example, you may have a large or unexpected expense you need to pay for. If this is the case, calculate how much interest you may potentially be charged and set yourself a clear repayment plan to confirm you’ll be able to afford it.
If you need to increase your credit limit to make ends meet, however, this could mean you’re struggling to manage your finances. In this case, increasing your credit limit could make your financial situation worse. 
Another thing to think about is whether a higher credit limit could leave you in a vulnerable situation. For example, are your financial circumstances likely to change? And if so, would you still be able to meet your repayments?
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What increasing your credit limit can do 
As well as giving you more money to spend, increasing your credit card limit can mean:
you’ll be less likely to go over your credit limit – so you won’t incur any additional fees or charges 
you can maintain or improve your credit score – staying within your credit limit indicates that you're able to manage your debt 
However:
you open the door to more debt – this means more to pay back and more interest charged 
you might find it more difficult to be approved for other types of loans – the amount of credit you already have is something that lenders look at to assess your creditworthiness 
you might negatively affect your credit score if you ask for an increase too often 
How does your credit limit impact your credit score? 
Having a higher credit limit won’t necessarily have a negative impact on your credit score – the important thing is how you use it. 
If you maintain a low balance and keep up with the credit card payments – you can improve your credit score. But spending near, or over, your credit limit each month could suggest you’re struggling to manage your finances. This could have a negative impact on your credit score.
What to do if you want an increase 
If you want to increase your limit, you’ll need to contact your lender and make a request. You won’t be guaranteed an increase. Your bank or lender will review:
your spending history 
any missed payments 
your credit history and credit rating 
your monthly income 
how long you've had the credit card for 
if you've applied for a credit limit increase before 
Explore: How to raise your current credit card limit
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to avoid credit card charges 
How to improve your credit score 
How many credit cards should you have?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/should-you-increase-your-credit-card-limit/
########Top of main content 
Is digital banking secure? 
When it comes to banking digitally, either on your computer or mobile phone, one of the first things you may be concerned about is security. 
There's a range of things that banks do to make sure your money is safe. Understanding what checks are in place can help give you peace of mind.
Here are a few features that make digital banking with us secure.
Ways to log on safely 
Your Digital Secure Key or physical Secure Key gives you extra protection against fraud.
It generates a temporary security code to make sure only you can access your accounts on the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app and online.
For mobile banking, you can also use fingerprint or face recognition to log on quickly and securely, depending on what device you have.
How to freeze and unfreeze your card 
If you’re worried you’ve lost your card or something suspicious is happening with it, you can put a temporary freeze on it. You can do this at any time on our mobile app or through online banking. Then if the card turns up, you can unfreeze the card instantly.
You can also report your card as lost or stolen. This allows you quickly to stop your card from being used and order a replacement straight away.
Check you're paying the right person 
We use a name checking service called Confirmation of Payee (CoP). It aims to protect you against authorised push payment scams and reduce the number of payments which are made by mistake.
It lets you check you’re paying the right person or business when you:
make a one-off payment 
set up a new regular payment 
amend an existing payment 
That way, you can see if the name matches who they say they are.
On rare occasions, there may be payments from your current or savings accounts that you didn’t authorise. We’ll refund the amount of the unauthorised transaction and any resulting charges and interest, as long as you’ve kept your security details safe.
Back to top 
What next? 
How to improve your banking security 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Latest scam warnings 
How to create a strong password 
Cyber security: how to bank online safely\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/is-digital-banking-secure/
########Top of main content 
Make sure you and your money are holiday-ready 
If you’re planning a foreign trip, it's never too soon to make sure you’re holiday-ready. 
Many of us are still getting used to travelling outside the UK again. So here are some handy reminders about how to make the most of your money while you’re away.
Plan ahead before you travel 
Before planning a foreign holiday, you should check whether there are any restrictions for your destination. The Foreign and Commonwealth Office Foreign and Commonwealth Office This link will open in a new window has advice for travelling all over the world. This includes guidance on safety and security as well as coronavirus information.
It's also important to think about whether you need choosing travel insurance.
If you're visiting the EU, you can also apply for a UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC). This gives you state healthcare at a reduced rate or for free. You may still have a European Health Insurance Card (EHIC). These remain valid until their expiry date but they’ll then need to be replaced with a GHIC.
Make a checklist so you don't forget to pack your passport and other essentials – and find out whether any visas are needed, especially if you're travelling to somewhere you've not been before.
Cards vs travel money 
There's no right or wrong when it comes to deciding how you’ll pay for things while outside the UK. But it’s worth weighing up the pros and cons of using cards or travel money before you set off. You may decide to use a mix of both.
Cards are widely accepted and if you’re given the choice of paying in pounds or local currency when in shops, bars or restaurants, it’s typically cheaper to choose the local currency. That way, you’ll avoid dynamic currency conversion fees and in most cases you'll get a better exchange rate.
You can also use your debit card to withdraw money from cash machines in other countries or regions. Find out more about our fees for using cards and cash machines outside the UK.
There are no HSBC fees for using an HSBC Global Money Account1 debit card to make payments outside the UK. Other non-HSBC fees may apply.
You’ll have the same protection if your debit or credit card is lost or stolen while on holiday as you would in the UK. This covers replacing cards and any costs from fraudulent transactions. HSBC customers can use mobile or online banking to freeze a lost or stolen card instantly.
If you're planning to withdraw money while on holiday, it's worth researching before you leave how many cash machines there are at your destination, as it varies between countries and regions. 
Ordering travel money in advance means you don't need to worry about finding a cash machine when you arrive. With HSBC, there’s also the convenience of having it delivered to your home for free. The minimum order for HSBC Travel Money is £100 and you have to have an account with HSBC, first direct or M&S Bank. But carrying a large amount of cash with you can be risky in case it's lost or stolen, so you might want to think about using a mix of cards and travel money.
Here’s everything you need to know about buying HSBC Travel Money. 
How exchange rates work 
It's a good idea to make sure you understand how exchange rates work before you set off on holiday.
You'll want to know which currency you need and how much you'll get when you convert your money.
For example, if the rate for pounds sterling to US dollars is 1.40, you’ll get $1.40 for every £1 you exchange. There are no extra fees with HSBC if you use your debit card to pay for your travel money but it's worth checking if buying elsewhere. 
You can find out more about why exchange rates fluctuate and how that could have an impact on your holiday spending.
1 Global Money is only available in the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You’ll need to have an eligible HSBC current account. This excludes our Basic Bank Account, Amanah, Appointee and MyAccount.
Back to top 
What next? 
Managing your money before, during and after travel 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Understanding travel money 
Should you pay in local currency? 
How do exchange rates work?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/make-sure-you-and-your-money-are-holiday-ready/
########Top of main content 
How to set and achieve your savings goals 
Some people love setting goals to save towards. Others only save because we know we should, even if we don’t have a specific goal in mind. 
Being mindful about why we’re saving and what we’re saving for could increase our savings significantly. According to MoneyHelper11 view footnote 1, people who set a money savings goal save faster than those who don’t.
Here are some steps to help you set your goals and save more:
Identify financial goals 
Name and date your goals 
Create visual reminders 
Make it automatic 
1. Identify financial goals 
The first step to setting meaningful goals is to picture your life in 1, 5 or 10 years from now and ask yourself:
What would you like to be doing? 
Where do you see yourself living? 
How would that feel? 
From there, write down the short, medium and long-term financial goals that will help you create this life. It could be to save enough for a deposit for a home or, if you’re thinking long term, it could be adding to your pension so you can secure a stable retirement. 
Whatever you choose, make sure you’re passionate about achieving these goals. They need to be things that excite and motivate you.
2. Name and date your goals 
When you have some goals in mind, it helps to get specific.
Maybe you’ll refer to one as your ‘Getting the keys’ project, or your ‘Financial freedom’ fund. Doesn’t that make them feel more real? More personal?
Once you have a name for your goals, be sure to add a date or milestone too. It might be, ‘Getting the Keys in 2025’, or ‘Financial Freedom at 55’. Our savings goal calculator could help you see how long it’ll take you to reach your savings goal, to help give you a firm target to aim for. 
It may also help to work out how much you need to save each month to reach your goal. Use our Regular Saver Calculator to see how much you could save over 12 months with a Regular Savings Account. 
You’ll need to be an HSBC current account holder (excluding Basic Bank Account) to be eligible for an HSBC Regular Saver.
Find out more about opening a savings account.
3. Create visual reminders 
If you’re serious about achieving your goals, it can help to create visual reminders. Quotes, drawings or framed images are all great ways to bring your goals to life.
Display these reminders somewhere prominent – maybe in the kitchen, bathroom or by the front door. That way, you’ll always be reminded of what’s important to you and why you’re saving.
Explore: Track savings goals
4. Make it automatic 
Once you have a clear vision of what you want, lock in that enthusiasm by automating your savings.
Set up standing orders from your current account to your savings and/or investment accounts, using your goal name as a reference. Ideally, set the payments to leave your account on payday so you’re prioritising paying yourself first. There are savings accounts that will transfer the amount you select on payday via standing order for you.
When you tap into the emotion behind your goals, you might find yourself spending less. If so, you can top up your savings with whatever’s left at the end of the month.
1Source: MoneyHelper: How to set a savings goal MoneyHelper: How to set a savings goal This link will open in a new window
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Explore HSBC savings accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to save money 
Saving vs investing 
Growing your money\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/how-to-set-and-achieve-savings-goals/
########Top of main content 
Myths about investing 
It’s fair to say investing has an image problem. 
Research on behalf of HSBC, asked Brits why they haven’t chosen to invest – with the majority (45%) saying they don’t think they have enough money to do so. 
Nearly a quarter (23%) say they don’t know enough about how to invest, and one in five (21%) say they worry about losing money.
Brits are also concerned about having access to their funds – with 37% saying they may need their money at short notice and another 30% stating that their financial situation means they can’t lock away money for a long time. 
If you’ve never invested before, you may think you need to be an expert or have a lot of money. Yet when you start to separate the myths from reality, investing is now more accessible than ever.
Look beyond the stereotypes and you never know, it might even be right for you.
Myth 1: It’s too risky
Myth 2: You need to be rich
Myth 3: You need to lock your money away
Myth 4: You need to be an expert
Myth 5: You need to monitor your investments daily
Myth 6: You need to know when’s the right time to buy
Myth 7: It’s a quick way to make money
Myth 1: It’s too risky 
Yes, there are risks involved with investing. That’s why it always comes with a warning: ‘you may not get back what you invest’. 
But too risky? Before you can answer that, we need to explore how risk works and what it could mean for you. 
All investments can be categorised on a scale of risk. 
At the extreme end of the spectrum, you have your high-risk, volatile investments such as hedge-betting. These aren’t for the faint-hearted as the value of your original investment can yo-yo all over the place. This means you could gain a lot or potentially lose everything. We don’t offer this type of investment.
At the more sedate end of the spectrum, you can find some very low-risk investments, categorised as ‘cautious’. Invest into one of these and, although your investment isn’t without risk, its value wouldn’t be expected to fluctuate much. This means you could enjoy a much smoother, gentler ride over time. We offer these types of investments in our mobile app, online and through our advisers.
Whatever your appetite for risk, there’s an investment out there to match it – from the cautious to the adventurous and everything in between. The key is to understand the risks involved and how can they change over time. That way, you can make an educated decision about how much risk is right for you.
Why take any risk at all? Simply put, it could give your money greater potential to grow than cash savings.
Myth 2: You need to be rich 
This might have been true in the past but these days, you can start investing with less than you might think. And it’s now easier than before thanks to mobile apps, online fund platforms and online investment advice services. 
If you’re an HSBC current account or eligible savings account holder, you can start investing online or in our mobile banking app with a lump sum of £50. Additional eligibility criteria apply. 
There’s an annual account fee of 0.25% payable quarterly and ongoing charges of around 0.25% of the value of the investments you hold. 
You’ll have access to the breakdown of these charges before you apply.
Myth 3: You need to lock your money away 
You’ve probably read that an ‘investment should be seen as a medium to long-term commitment’ or ‘you should aim to hold it for at least 5 years’. This is because the longer you hold an investment, the more chance you have of smoothing out the bumps.
This doesn’t mean you must physically lock your money away. With most investments, your money isn’t locked anywhere – and with HSBC there are no penalties for selling your investments. You can access your money at any time. 
Still, you shouldn’t treat an investment like a savings account. Withdrawing your money early could negatively affect your returns. You want to avoid being forced to sell when the markets are having a downturn, as your investments could be worth less than what you put in.
Ideally, you should have between 3 and 6 months’ worth of expenses saved in an emergency fund before you start investing. So, if your car breaks down while the markets have a wobble, you can use your savings to get it repaired. That way, you can leave your investments untouched and give the markets time to recover.
Myth 4: You need to be an expert 
If you invest in shares, you’ll need to do your homework and keep your eye on the markets. That’s because if the company you invest in does badly, you could potentially lose money. The price of your shares will also be affected by supply and demand, interest rates and the wider economy. 
But buying shares isn’t the only way to invest.
If you're new to investing and have an HSBC current account, funds could be a good way to start. Buying into a fund is like buying a ready-made basket of investments. They spread your money across many different investments, which is like putting your eggs in lots of different baskets.
Funds can be less risky than buying individual shares in a single company. This is because a lower return in one investment, may be compensated by a gain in another. Spreading your risk in this way is known as ‘diversification’.
Perhaps the best thing about investing in funds is they’re put together by a fund manager – an experienced investment professional. So you’re essentially investing in an expert to invest for you. Fund manager’s fees are deducted directly from the investment.
HSBC has specialist teams of investment professionals who carefully select the investments in the funds we offer. As they manage them on your behalf, this leaves you free to spend your time doing something else.
To make it easier for you to start investing, we offer two different kinds of ready-made portfolios: regular and sustainable. Just choose the range and the risk level to suit you and we’ll take care of the rest. Eligibility criteria and fees apply.
Myth 5: You need to monitor your invest\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/myths-about-investing/
########Top of main content 
10 ways to reduce your carbon footprint and save money 
When it comes to saving and reducing your carbon footprint, every little bit counts. 
Your carbon footprint is a way of showing the total amount of carbon emissions (carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases) released into the atmosphere as a result of your actions. These gases are known to trap heat, causing global warming.
Here, we look at ways you can lower your carbon footprint, and potentially save money.
1. Make your home more energy efficient 
From switching to energy-efficient products to generating your own renewable energy – there are many ways you can reduce your carbon footprint at home. 
Heating, for example, can be expensive and use a lot of energy. Simple changes, like draft proofing lofts and unwanted gaps can reduce heat loss and the cost of keeping your home nice and warm. 
Explore: How to make your home energy efficient
2. Use less energy 
Changing your daily habits at home can also make a difference and lower the cost of your energy bills.
Simple steps could help, such as not leaving gadgets on standby, drying your clothes outside when possible, instead of in a tumble dryer, and using less water. 
It takes energy and resources to process and deliver water to our homes. Try turning off the tap when brushing your teeth, having short showers instead of baths, and only boiling the water you need.
Explore: How to save money on energy
3. Switch energy provider 
Some energy providers offer energy from renewable sources such as wind and solar, rather than fossil fuels. Look at how your current energy supplier stacks up against competitors in the market. You may find there's another provider that offers a more affordable and cleaner way of getting your energy.
4. Be selective about your shopping 
Buying only the things you need can have an immediate impact on your finances and your carbon footprint, as can buying recycled or pre-owned goods where possible. 
Although it may cost more at the outset, buying better quality – from clothes to white goods – can save you money in the long run as they’ll last longer.
Explore more: How to make financial decisions you won't regret
5. Make changes to your diet 
The food we eat can have a significant impact on the environment. For example, meat and dairy accounts for 14.5% of the world's greenhouse gas emissions, according to the UN’s Food and Agricultural Organization (FAO).11 View footnote 1
Food shipped from overseas also uses a lot more resources than local produce. 
Eating fewer animal products, especially red meat, and shopping for locally-sourced food can make a difference. 
6. Reduce food waste 
When we waste food, we also waste the energy and water it takes to grow, harvest, transport, and package it. If it ends up in landfill, it also produces methane—a greenhouse gas that is more potent than carbon dioxide. 
You can reduce food waste by creating a budget, planning meals and storing your food carefully. 
Explore: How to save money on groceries and waste less
7. Drive less 
If possible, opt to walk, cycle or use public transport instead of driving. 
If you were to travel between London and Glasgow, a journey in the average petrol car emits around 4 times more CO2e per passenger than the equivalent journey by coach.22 View footnote 2
8. Holiday closer to home 
Flying makes up a substantial amount of our carbon footprint; taking trips that don’t require a plane journey can significantly reduce your overall impact.
9. Upgrade your car when you can 
When it comes time to buy a new car, and as they become more affordable, an electric or hybrid vehicle may be an option. It can help you minimise the amount of petrol you use. 
If you’re driving an electric or plug-in electric hybrid vehicle in London, you may qualify for the cleaner vehicle discount cleaner vehicle discount This link will open in a new window. 
10. Consider sustainable investing 
Investors are increasingly choosing sustainable funds as a way to help create a better world. If you’re looking to invest and lower your carbon footprint – you may want to consider sustainable options that enable you to have a positive impact. 
Explore: What is sustainable investing?
1Source 1: FAO FAO This link will open in a new window
2Source 2: Transport and Environmental Statistics: 2021 Annual Report Transport and Environmental Statistics: 2021 Annual Report This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Recycled cards: A more sustainable way to pay 
How to save money on your home insurance? 
New ways to save for the future\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/save-money-while-helping-save-planet/
########Top of main content 
Moving to the UK Guide 
The perfect partner for your international journey. We’re here to support you as you begin your new life in the UK. 
This guide has been designed to give you an overview of some of the things you might want to think about before you move, from banking and healthcare to cultural differences. We hope that it helps to make your move to the UK as smooth as possible.
With around 600 branches across the country, we’re one of the largest retail banks in the UK. We also offer 48 Premier Centres, for our international Premier customers.
Fast Facts
Capital City: London 
Currency: Pound Sterling (GBP £) 
Time zone: GMT (GMT +1 late March to late October) 
Government: Parliamentary constitutional monarchy 
International dialing code: +44 (0044) 
Main Languages: English 
Emergency services phone number: 999 
Are you ready to move? 
Housing	
Research your housing options. A number of websites will show you what’s available in your chosen area. Common sites include Zoopla and Rightmove within the UK, but you’ll find a number of local estate agent sites useful as well as the local newspaper. When choosing an area, you’ll need to consider transport links, catchment areas for local schools, the social scene and average cost of living.
Renting
You will typically have to undergo several checks. Most residential rental agreements are for six to 12 months. In the majority of cases, you’ll need approximately six weeks’ rent as a deposit as well as a reference letter from your employer. Tenants usually have to pay for gas, electricity, water, phone, broadband and council tax bills.
If you cannot prove your earnings or you do not have a UK guarantor, you may be asked to pay six months’ rent upfront.
Buying
The most common way to do this is to take out a UK mortgage on a property. You will need a solicitor or conveyancer to deal with the paperwork. Costs that will need to be paid include legal fees, stamp duty and land registry costs.
Before you can get a mortgage, you’ll need a ‘Decision in Principle’ – this gives you an indication of the amount you may be able to borrow to buy a property.
Visit www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages for more information on getting a mortgage.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage
	
National insurance number	
You may have a National Insurance (NI) number printed on the back of your biometric residence permit (BRP). You don’t need to apply for a National Insurance number if you already have one, or one is printed on your BRP.
If you don’t have a National Insurance number, you must apply. You can only apply for it once you’re in the UK. You must have the right to work or study in the UK to get a National Insurance number.
To find out more visit www.gov.ukwww.gov.uk This link will open in a new window
	
Income tax	
You have to pay tax on your income if you come to live in the UK. How you pay depends on whether you’re employed or self-employed.
If you’re employed your employer will deduct Income Tax and National Insurance from your wages. You’ll have to send a Self-Assessment tax return if you work for yourself for example or you have other UK income.
For more information on UK Income tax visit www.gov.ukwww.gov.uk This link will open in a new window
	
Check your driving licence	
You need to make sure your current licence will allow you to drive in the UK. In most cases you will have to take the UK driving test after being in the country for 12 months.
To drive in the UK you need to:
be at least 17 years of age
have a current valid driving licence
have up to date vehicle insurance
be driving a car that’s passed its MOT test
For more information visit www.gov.uk/government/organisations/driver-and-vehicle-licensing-agencywww.gov.uk/government/organisations/driver-and-vehicle-licensing-agency This link will open in a new window
	
Hospital treatment	
The UK’s National Health Service (NHS) is the country’s main provider and is free for permanent residents. However, you’ll need to check your entitlement to free NHS treatment. Private healthcare is a fee-paying option.
To see if you’re entitled to free NHS treatment visit
www.citizwww.citiz This link will open in a new windowensadvice.org.ukensadvice.org.uk This link will open in a new window
GP services
Anyone in England can register and consult with their local GP without charge.
To find your local GP visit www.nhs.ukwww.nhs.uk This link will open in a new window
NHS Dental Services
Dentists charge all those who are taken on as NHS patients, unless:
the treatment is free (certain NHS dental treatments are free)
the patient is exempt or partially exempt from charges on the grounds of age, pregnancy, or income.
Find out more about NHS dental care at www.nhs.ukwww.nhs.uk This link will open in a new window
	
Schools and Education	
All children in the UK, typically between the ages of 5 and 16 are entitled to a free place at a state school. Children start school the September after their fourth birthday. State schools follow the national curriculum. To get a place, you’ll need to apply through your local council.
Private schools, also known as independent or public schools, charge fees to attend. Pupils don’t need to follow the national curriculum.
	
Are you ready to move? 
Housing National insurance number National insurance number	
Research your housing options. A number of websites will show you what’s available in your chosen area. Common sites include Zoopla and Rightmove within the UK, but you’ll find a number of local estate agent sites useful as well as the local newspaper. When choosing an area, you’ll need to consider transport links, catchment areas for local schools, the social scene and average cost of living.
Renting
You will typically have to undergo several checks. Most residential rental agreements are for six to 12 months. In the majority of cases, you’ll need approximately six weeks’ rent as a deposit as well as a reference letter from your employer. \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/living-in-the-uk/moving-to-the-uk-guide/
########Your application
HSBC Premier Bank Account
Let's just check a few things before you apply 
Where do you currently reside? 
This is the country / region of your current residential address.
Select country / region
Afghanistan
Aland Islands
Albania
Algeria
American Samoa
Andorra
Angola
Anguilla
Antarctica
Antigua & Barbuda
Argentina
Armenia
Aruba
Australia
Austria
Azerbaijan
Bahamas
Bahrain
Bangladesh
Barbados
Belarus
Belgium
Belize
Benin
Bermuda
Bhutan
Bolivia
Bonaire, Sint Eustatius & Saba
Bosnia & Herzegovina
Botswana
Bouvet Island
Brazil
British Indian Ocean Territory
British Virgin Islands
Brunei Darussalam
Bulgaria
Burkina Faso
Burundi
Cambodia
Cameroon
Canada
Cape Verde
Cayman Islands
Central African Republic
Chad
Chile
China
Christmas Island
Cocos (Kelling) Islands
Colombia
Comoros
Congo
Cook Islands
Costa Rica
Cote d'Ivoire
Croatia
Cuba
Curacao
Cyprus
Czech Republic
Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea)
Democratic Republic of the Congo
Denmark
Djibouti
Dominica
Dominican Republic
Ecuador
Egypt
El Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Eritrea
Estonia
Eswatini
Ethiopia
Falkland Islands (Islas Malvinas)
Faroe Islands
Federated States of Micronesia
Fiji
Finland
France
French Guiana
French Polynesia
French Southern & Antarctic Lands
Gabon
Gambia
Georgia
Germany
Ghana
Gibraltar
Greece
Greenland
Grenada
Guadeloupe
Guam
Guatemala
Guernsey, Channel Islands
Guinea
Guinea-Bissau
Guyana
Haiti
Heard Island & McDonald Islands
Honduras
Hong Kong SAR
Hungary
Iceland
India
Indonesia
Iran
Iraq
Ireland
Isle of Man
Israel
Italy
Jamaica
Japan
Jersey, Channel Islands
Jordan
Kazakhstan
Kenya
Kiribati
Kosovo
Kuwait
Kyrgyzstan
Lao People's Democratic Republic
Latvia
Lebanon
Lesotho
Liberia
Libya
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Macau SAR
Macedonia (FYROM)
Madagascar
Malawi
Malaysia
Maldives
Mali
Malta
Marshall Islands
Martinique
Mauritania
Mauritius
Mayotte
Mexico
Monaco
Mongolia
Montserrat
Morocco
Mozambique
Myanmar (Burma)
Namibia
Nauru
Nepal
Netherlands
New Caledonia
New Zealand
Nicaragua
Niger
Nigeria
Niue
Norfolk Island
Northern Mariana Islands
Norway
Oman
Pakistan
Palau
Palestinian territories
Panama
Papua New Guinea
Paraguay
Peru
Philippines
Pitcairn
Poland
Portugal
Puerto Rico
Qatar
Republic of Korea (South Korea)
Republic of Moldova
Republic of Montenegro
Republic of Serbia
Reunion
Romania
Russia
Rwanda
Saint Barthelemy
Saint Helena
Saint Kitts & Nevis
Saint Lucia
Saint Martin
Saint Pierre & Miquelon
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
Samoa
San Marino
Sao Tome & Principe
Saudi Arabia
Senegal
Seychelles
Sierra Leone
Singapore
Sint Maarten
Slovakia
Slovenia
Solomon Islands
Somalia
South Africa
South Georgia & The South Sandwich Islands
South Sudan
Spain
Sri Lanka
Sudan
Surinam
Svalbard & Jan Mayen
Sweden
Switzerland
Syria
Taiwan
Tajikistan
Tanzania
Thailand
Timor Leste
Togo
Tokelau
Tonga
Trinidad & Tobago
Tunisia
Turkey
Turkmenistan
Turks & Caicos Islands
Tuvalu
Uganda
Ukraine
United Arab Emirates
United States
United States Minor Outlying Islands
United States Virgin Islands
Uruguay
Uzbekistan
Vanuatu
Vatican City
Venezuela
Vietnam
Wallis & Futuna
West Bank
Western Sahara
Yemen
Zambia
Zimbabwe
Start application\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/international/eligibility/?product=premier-account
########Top of main content 
Sending money outside the UK: key words and definitions 
When sending money outside the UK you may see some words or phrases you've not come across before. 
Here are some definitions of the key things to know.
International Bank Account Number (IBAN) 
An IBAN helps banks identify an account being used for making and receiving international payments.
If you're with HSBC, you can find this number at the top of bank statements near your account number.
Bank Identifier Code (BIC)/SWIFT Code 
This is the unique identifying code of a bank, the international equivalent of a sort code. If you want to make an international transfer, you need to know the BIC for the bank where the money is being sent. BICs are also known as SWIFT codes.
If you’re with us, you can find your BIC or SWIFT code at the top of your bank statements near your account number, the same as with your IBAN.
Find out more about what IBAN and BIC codes are
HSBC Global Money Account 
With this account, you can order a debit card and there are no HSBC fees for using it to make payments outside the UK. Other non-HSBC fees may apply. 
Global Money is only available in the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You’ll need to have an eligible HSBC current account. This excludes our Basic Bank Account, Amanah, Appointee and MyAccount.
Apply now Apply now for an HSBC Global Money Account 
Currency accounts 
Currency accounts allow you to hold and manage your foreign currency in one place. This account is separate from your current account and allows you to:
transfer money to other accounts in local currency 
set up recurring and future payments 
manage your account online 
The benefit of a currency account is you can send money outside the UK without any exchange rates involved. For example, if you hold a euro account you could use it to pay for holiday accommodation in euros.
There are no charges for opening an HSBC Currency Account.
Foreign exchange rate 
This is the rate applied when you convert from one currency to another. Exchange rates move up and down over time. They can vary depending on which bank, or company, you use to make the exchange.
Explore: How do exchange rates work?
Live rate 
A live rate is a currency exchange rate that's updated in real time.
Recurring payment 
A recurring payment is when you set up a series of payments to be taken from your account. These payments can be for regular or irregular amounts and at different times. Recurring payments work in a similar way to standing orders in the UK.
Future-dated payments 
Future-dated payments are made when you set up a payment to be taken from your account on a later date.
Back to top Back to top of page 
What next? 
Find out more about currency accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Using your card abroad - fees and charges explained 
Sending money outside the UK: top tips 
Sending money to the UK\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/bank-financial-jargon/
########Top of main content 
Funding a degree in the UK 
Coming to the UK as a student has many benefits, but there can be high costs and you might need to manage money across multiple countries or regions. 
Most international students at UK universities pay annual tuition fees of between £10,000 and £20,000, according to the 2021-2022 Reddin Survey Reddin Survey This link will open in a new window.
But fees are only part of the equation. According to the 2022 Student Money Survey Student Money Survey This link will open in a new window, living costs are another £924 a month on average, an increase of 14% since 2021. This figure will vary depending on the university and location – in London, the average is £1,089 a month.
There may be extra costs to consider on top of this too, such as flights to see family. To get a visa, international students also need to prove they have enough money to support themselves and pay for their course. 
Ways to fund your education 
When the time comes, it may be possible to work while studying in the UK. This will be subject to the conditions of your visa. Here are some other ways to cover the costs.
Savings 
If you’re able to start early and can get into the habit of making regular contributions, saving may help you pay for the degree without going into debt. Different savings accounts can have different benefits, so make sure you find the right one for you.
Investing 
If you’re a parent preparing to fund your child’s degree and still have several years until they’re due to start university, you might want to consider investing. However, investing carries the risk of losses while offering the potential for higher returns. So, you could get back less than you invested. 
It’s also important to have money set aside for emergencies before you consider investing. Find out more about saving vs investing. To invest with HSBC UK, you need to be a resident in the UK.
Borrowing 
Another option is to borrow money, as long as you're confident you’ll be able to keep up with repayments. 
You can also discuss funding opportunities with universities, the UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) UK Council for International Student Affairs (UKCISA) This link will open in a new window or the British Council British Council This link will open in a new window, if you’re not sure you’ll be able to cover the costs. Some students may be eligible for a scholarship.
Making international payments 
If you’re going to be making regular international payments to a family member, it’s worth thinking about how to make this simple and cost effective. Exactly how much and how often you’ll be transferring money may determine the best way to do it.
An international money transfer gives you the flexibility to transfer a set amount at a set time and at regular intervals. You may also be able to link global accounts with some international banks. For example, HSBC Global View and Global Transfers allows you to see all your international HSBC accounts in one place and quickly send money between them without a fee.
Back to top 
What next? 
Managing your money while studying 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What you need to know about sending money to the UK 
Setting up your finances outside the UK 
How does banking work in the UK?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/funding-a-degree-in-the-uk/
########Top of main content 
	International credit decisioning FAQs		
Take me straight to 		
Introduction to international credit history
Deciding to use your international credit history
Retrieving your international credit history
Outcome of retrieving your international credit history
Questions on the credit report
Introduction to international credit history		
What is international credit history? 
International credit history is your credit information from a credit bureau in a country or region other than the UK. HSBC partners with Nova Credit, a company that provides credit providers with instant access to international credit history in a uniform format. 
How is HSBC able to access my international credit information? 
If you choose to use your international credit history in support of your HSBC UK credit card application, we’ll work with Nova Credit and/or its affiliates to access a translated version of your credit history. You will be asked to give your consent for this information to be shared with us, for the sole purpose of your credit card application.
Can international credit history be used from all countries? 
You will be able to use your international credit history from select countries. You will be notified if you qualify as you apply for a credit card digitally. 
What is Nova Credit? 
Nova Credit is an official partner of HSBC. Nova Credit and their affiliates can securely access your credit history from a foreign country/region and share it with us to support your application. Nova Credit provides instant access to high quality global credit data in an easy, uniform format. 
Which countries can I share my credit history from? 
Currently, you can choose to share your credit history from any of the following countries:
Australia
Brazil
Canada
India
Mexico
Nigeria
Philippines
Spain
Switzerland
US
Kenya
Dominican Republic
When will more countries be added to the list of countries I can share my credit history from? 
We are continuously working with Nova Credit to add more countries. 
Deciding to use your international credit history 
Is it free to use my international credit history to support my credit card application? 
Yes. It's free to use this service to support your HSBC UK credit card application. 
Does sharing credit history internationally affect my credit history in my country of origin? 
It depends on the country. If you are using credit history from Australia, India, Spain, or Switzerland, the enquiry is a 'soft enquiry' and will not affect your credit score. If you are using credit history from Brazil, Mexico, Nigeria, Philippines, or the United States, your credit history in your country of origin could be affected, as the enquiry is recorded as a 'hard enquiry'. 
Is it safe to share my personal information with Nova Credit? 
Yes. Nova Credit and its subsidiaries are regularly and independently audited against international standards on information security, confidentiality, and privacy controls.
Nova Credit UK is authorised and regulated by the FCA in the UK.
Does sharing my credit history internationally mean I have to import my entire credit history into the UK? 
No. All you need to do is provide your consent during the online application, and we can access your international credit history. We'll use this information solely to support your HSBC UK credit card application. 
Do I still need to provide supporting documents such as ID and income details to support my credit card application? 
Yes, you'll still need to provide supporting documents to supplement your credit card application, where requested by HSBC UK. 
Am I eligible to use my international credit history as part of my HSBC UK credit card application? 
You are eligible to use your international credit history if you have a previous address outside of the UK, and you have credit history in any of the following countries:
Australia
Brazil
Canada
India
Mexico
Nigeria
Philippines
Spain
Switzerland
US
Kenya
Dominican Republic
Do I have to provide my international credit history if I have one? 
Providing your international credit history is optional, and you may submit your credit card application without providing it. However, if you choose not to share your credit history, it may affect the outcome of your application, especially when you are new to the UK and have no UK credit bureau information. 
Retrieving your international credit history 
What information will I need to retrieve my international credit history? 
While the exact information differs by bureau, you will often need to do a few things:
1.Provide basic personal information, such as your first and last name, date of birth, email address, previous addresses, and home country ID number.
2.You may be asked to answer a few verification questions based on your credit report or use your home country phone number to provide a one-time password.
3.Specifically for Indian bureaus, you’ll need to provide additional identifying information:
your family name when you applied for credit in India
the address you had when you applied for credit in India
the phone number you had when you applied for credit in India
one of these: Permanent Account Number (PAN), Passport number, Voter ID
I don’t remember my most recent address in the country where I have credit history. Can I still retrieve my credit history? 
To find your credit history and verify your identity with the bureau, you must enter your most recent address in the country where you have credit history. 
I started a credit card application but don’t have time to finish it now. Can I complete it later? 
No, there is no option to save and resume later. You can choose whether to submit your application with or without your international credit history.
No credit decision is carried out until you submit your application. Therefore, if you exit before submitting your application you can restart a new one later without any impact to your credit report.
I no longer have access to the email address hel\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/credit-cards/faqs/
########Top of main content 
Should you pay in local currency outside the UK? 
In most cases it will cost you more to make a card payment outside the UK in pounds sterling rather than the local currency. 
Whether you’re buying a meal in a Spanish tapas bar or paying for a bus tour in the US, you may be given the choice.
It might be tempting to settle for the amount you’re offered in sterling (GBP), as it's the currency you know best. 
Here's a guide to help you weigh up the pros and cons of paying in euros or pounds when spending money outside the UK. 
What is dynamic currency conversion? 
This happens if you choose to pay in your home currency rather than the local currency. It means the conversion takes place at the point of sale.
Dynamic currency conversion is sometimes known as DCC.
Paying in sterling 
If you opt to pay in your home currency , you’ll know more accurately how much things are costing as you pay.
However, it can be more expensive as a shop or restaurant is allowed to set its own exchange rate to convert the amount you’re spending. They may also add extra conversion fees on top of this.
Some retailers are given an incentive to use DCC to earn more. This may be through a favourable exchange rate or extra conversion fees.
Explore: How do exchange rates work?
Paying in local currency 
Research shows that in most cases you can save by opting to spend in the local currency. For example, that would mean choosing euros in Spain or dollars in the US.
When you choose to pay in the currency of the region or country you’re visiting, Visa or Mastercard will set the exchange rate. Your bank may also charge a fee to carry out the transaction.
The rate used by your card provider when paying in local currency will in most cases be lower than that of the merchant, or foreign bank, when paying in sterling.
Some retailers outside the UK might automatically assume you want to pay in pounds unless you say otherwise, so always double check the amount before paying.
Explore: Card fees and charges outside the UK
Using HSBC Global Money 
If you have an HSBC Global Money Account, you can order a debit card to use with it. There are no HSBC fees for using the card to make payments outside the UK. Other non-HSBC fees may apply. 
Global Money is only available in the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You’ll need to have an eligible HSBC current account. This excludes our Basic Bank Account, Amanah, Appointee and MyAccount.
Back to top 
What next? 
Should you use a card or travel money outside the UK? 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Managing your money before, during and after travel 
Make sure you and your money are holiday-ready 
Understanding travel money: what you need to know\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/should-you-pay-in-local-currency/
########Top of main content 
Managing your money before, during and after travel 
Planning your holiday spending can help you to avoid going over budget. 
A quarter of holidaymakers admit they’ve spent between £100 and £300 more than they'd meant to while they’re away, according to our study1Footnote link 1.
Here are some tips to help you manage your money before you leave, while you're outside the UK and when you get back.
Before you leave the UK 
Manage your finances before you go 
Whether you're travelling for one week or several months, it’s important to take some time to create a budget. Understanding your income and outgoings can help you work out what you can comfortably afford to spend on your holiday. 
You could use tools like our budget planner to help. 
As you note down your expenses, now is the time to set up Direct Debits to make sure any bills are paid on time automatically – giving you one less thing to worry about. 
If you’re looking to save money for travel, our savings goal calculator can help you work out how much you’d need to reach your goal.
Explore: Online money management tools
Think about travel insurance 
If you’re not already covered. it might be a good idea to buy travel insurance as soon as you book your trip.
Travel insurance doesn't just cover you while you're away. It can also cover you for things that might go wrong before you travel, such as cancelled or delayed flights. Without travel insurance, things can get quite costly – should something happen. 
Explore: Should you get travel insurance?
Sort out your spending money 
Our survey suggests debit cards (36%) are just as popular as cash (36%) as the preferred way of spending money outside the UK. Credit cards also remain a popular choice (25%).
From those of us who prefer to use cash, the majority (51%) still prefer to get it face-to-face from a bank or currency exchange before they travel. We're most likely to pick our provider by exchange rate (36%), followed by ease of use (22%) and how close it is to home (14%).
Depending on your situation and where you’re travelling, you may prefer to take cards or travel money. Or you may want to take a mixture of both.
Our HSBC Global Money Account allows you to spend money outside the UK (withdraw cash or make card purchases in multiple currencies) without paying HSBC fees – just as you would at home. It removes some of that unexpected spend – making it easier to plan and stick to a budget.
Global Money is available for eligible HSBC current account holders who have the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. Terms and conditions apply.
You can also order Travel Money online from HSBC – choose home delivery or collect in a branch.
Understand the extras 
UK holidaymakers say they’ve been pushed over budget by surprise holiday charges – luggage fees (22%) and over-priced hotel excursions (22%). 
It’s important to understand any extra costs when travelling abroad, including any fees or charges for using your card outside the UK.
Gather key contacts 
Make a note of the number to call your bank from outside the UK, so you can get in touch if something happens while you’re away. 
If you're with HSBC, you can phone +44 1442 422929 from outside the UK. 
You should also do the same with your travel insurance provider and any other numbers you might need.
During your trip 
Paying in local currency 
When shopping or eating out in a restaurant, you may be asked if you want to pay in pound sterling instead of the local currency. This is called dynamic currency conversion (DCC).
You’ll almost always be charged a higher exchange rate for choosing to pay in pounds. The shop or restaurant may also add on extra conversion fees.
If you choose to pay in the local currency, Visa or Mastercard will set the exchange rate, which in most cases will be lower.
Explore: Should you pay in local currency outside the UK?
Don't keep all your money in one place 
Consider storing your cards and cash separately to reduce the risk of them all being lost, or stolen, at the same time. Use a safe to store anything valuable (including money) that you don’t need to have with you.
Budget your spending 
Regardless of whether you’re using cards or travel money, it can be a good idea to stick to a daily budget for spending while you’re away.
By setting a reasonable target, you can make sure that, when you come home, you’re not stressed about money and in need of a holiday all over again.
Contact your bank straight away if your cards are lost or stolen 
If your cards are lost or stolen while you’re away, you should tell your bank as soon as you realise so they can cancel them.
If you need emergency money while outside the UK, some banks will arrange for cash to reach you to keep you going until you get home.
If you’re with HSBC, you can temporarily freeze your card while outside the UK.
If your card is lost or stolen, call us on +44 1442 422929, or use our mobile banking app to temporarily freeze your card.
After you get home 
Almsot a fifth of UK holidaymakers (18%) admit they’ve got more than £100 worth of foreign cash at home after taking it back with them at the end of their holiday.
If you have any cash left over, you have a couple of options when you return home.
If you plan to travel again soon to a country or region where that currency is used, you can choose to hold on to the money until then.
If another trip isn’t on the cards, you can exchange your foreign currency back into pounds. These transactions are often referred to as ‘buy backs’.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Global Money 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Make sure you and your money are holiday-ready 
Using your card outside the UK 
6 tips for using your credit card overseas 
About the survey 
Survey was conducted by Sticky and Censuswide on behalf of HSBC UK. Sample size was 2,014 adults in the UK. Fieldwork was undertaken between 2nd to 6 September 2022. The survey was carried out online. The figures have been weighted a\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/managing-your-money-travelling/
########Top of main content 
What is a currency account? 
Currency accounts are a way to store, send and receive multiple currencies. 
They can be useful if you regularly make payments, or receive money, in other currencies. So, something like the HSBC Currency AccountHSBC Currency Account Currency Account could suit you if you:
travel a lot 
have a mortgage outside the UK 
regularly earn money outside the UK 
are planning to retire outside the UK 
But before jumping in, it’s worth looking at some of the benefits and things to think about.
The benefits 
Cost-effective way to move money internationally 
With currency accounts, you can move money from one currency to another, reducing your conversion fees. You can also use currency accounts to buy things outside the UK and save on international transaction fees.
Fast and flexible 
If you have more than one currency account, you may be able to transfer instantly between them. 
If you track exchange rates, you can move money straight away when you feel the rates are favourable. This can also come in handy if you need to make an urgent international payment.
Secure, no matter what the currency 
If your currency account is with an authorised UK bank, it will be protected under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme:
up to £85,000 per eligible person, per bank 
up to £170,000 for joint accounts 
Things to think about 
Are all your currencies covered? 
A currency account won’t cover all currencies. When looking at providers, make sure the currencies you need are included. Your needs could change over time, so it may be worth looking for a provider with a wide range of currencies.
What are the fees and conditions? 
Some currency accounts may charge monthly account fees, or payment fees when you make transfers. It may help to avoid these if you can, as they can stack up.
You may also find with some currency accounts, you have to keep a minimum amount in each currency, otherwise you may be charged extra fees. However, an HSBC Currency Account has no minimum amount.
Does the account meet your needs? 
Currency accounts may not include all the features you’d expect from a bank account. For example, an HSBC Currency Account doesn’t come with:
a debit card 
a cheque book 
an overdraft facility 
a linked lending facility 
Who is eligible? 
There may be conditions around who can apply for a currency account. For example, if you’re opening an HSBC Currency Account, you’ll need to be:
applying for a sole account 
18 years old, or older 
an existing HSBC customer (your HSBC account must be active and this excludes Basic Bank Account holders, as well as first direct and M&S Bank customers) 
What next? 
If you feel a currency account may be useful, make a list of exactly what it is you’re looking for. It could be:
a particular currency 
no fees 
the ability to transfer between currencies instantly 
Or, it could be all of the above.
Once you have that list, take a look at the different types of currency accounts to find one that will meet your needs.
Back to top 
Next steps 
Explore HSBC's Currency Account 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Buying a property abroad: 5 things you need to know 
Sending money outside the UK: key words and definitions 
Sending money outside the UK: top tips\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/what-is-a-currency-account/
########Top of main content 
Understanding travel money: what you need to know 
If you’re planning a trip outside the UK, it's worth getting your head around how travel money works 
Taking travel money can mean you’re covered for almost any situation. But before you exchange money, read these tips. They include avoiding airport exchange counters and how to sell any unused travel money.
What is an exchange rate? 
An exchange rate tells you how much foreign currency you’ll get in return for your pounds sterling. For instance, a euro exchange rate of 1.12 would give you 1 euro and 12 cents for each pound you exchange. So if you spent £100, you’d get €112 in return.
Exchange rates can fluctuate. Checking the daily exchange rate can help you get the best deal when you want to buy currency. It can also help you decide which countries and regions are good value for money. But, keep in mind that past performance of a currency is not a guarantee of how it will fare in future.
What are buy and sell rates? 
Sell rate 
This is the exchange rate for selling foreign currencies to you. For example, if you're planning a trip to the US, you would exchange your pounds sterling for US dollars at the sell rate.
Buy rate 
If you return home with unspent foreign cash, foreign currency providers in the UK will buy it back from you at this rate. For example, if you've just returned from Japan and have an account with us, you can exchange your yen back into pounds sterling at the buy rate at any Full Service Branch or Cash Service Branch.
Where should you get your travel money from? 
You can buy foreign currency from:
banks 
post offices 
bureaux de change 
currency websites 
some travel agents and large supermarkets 
Spend some time looking at the options available and the varying rates, as well as any associated fees, so you can be sure you’re getting the best deal.
HSBC Travel Money has the same exchange rates online and in branches. There are no delivery fees for home or branch orders and the minimum order value is £100.
Why shouldn't you exchange your money at the airport? 
It might seem more convenient to buy currency at the airport, but it can often be very expensive.
Airport currency exchange counters typically have no incentive to offer competitive rates. That's because travellers who are about to jet off have limited options. They might also pass higher operating costs on to travellers.
Some airport counters charge a service fee that can add up to as much as 10% of the total money exchange.
How should you pay for your travel money? 
If you use a debit card to exchange your money in the UK, it’s likely that your bank will treat it like any other cash withdrawal, or purchase, so you won’t pay any fees.
If you buy currency using a credit card, you may have to pay a cash advance fee of around 3%. You’ll probably also be charged interest on your payment straight away. That’s because foreign currency transactions are handled in a similar way to withdrawing cash on your credit card.
What if you run out of cash outside the UK? 
You can withdraw extra cash from a cash machine with your debit card. You can also use your cards to pay for goods and services at shops, restaurants and anywhere else that accepts Visa or Mastercard (depending on your card type).
Fees and charges may apply when you use cards outside the UK.
With an HSBC Global Money Account debit card, there are no HSBC fees for making payments or withdrawing cash outside the UK. Other non-HSBC fees may apply. 
Global Money is only available in the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. You’ll need to have an eligible HSBC current account. This excludes our Basic Bank Account, Amanah, Appointee and MyAccount.
Back to top 
What next? 
Should you use a card or travel money outside the UK? 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Managing your money before, during and after travel 
Using your card abroad: fees and charges explained 
Should you pay in local currency outside the UK\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/understanding-travel-money/
########Top of main content 
How do exchange rates work? 
An exchange rate tells you how much of one currency you could buy with another. 
For example, this could be converting pounds sterling (GBP) to euros (EUR).
If the market rate for GBP/EUR is 1.10, for example, you’ll get €1.10 for each £1 you exchange (assuming you get the market rate and excluding any fees).
It works the same way in reverse. The EUR/GBP rate might be 0.90, meaning you’d get £0.90 for each €1 you exchange.
The rate directly affects the amount you get when you exchange currency.
Working out how an exchange rate will affect you 
To work out how much of another currency you’ll get, just take the amount you want to exchange and multiply it by the exchange rate.
So, if you’re exchanging £500 into euros and the rate is GBP/EUR 1.10, then you’ll end up with €550 (assuming you get the market rate and excluding any fees). If the rate drops to GPB/EUR 1.05, then you’ll only get €525. 
If you want to change money back when you return home, you can do the same from euros to pounds. Say you have €200 left when you return and the rate is EUR/GBP £0.90, then you’ll get £180. Again, this assumes you get the market rate and excludes any fees.
Why are currencies exchanged? 
Common reasons to exchange currencies include:
going on holiday outside the UK 
moving outside the UK 
paying a mortgage outside the UK 
funding a child’s international education 
preparing for retirement outside the UK 
But currencies are also exchanged for other reasons, such as trade (buying goods and services from another country or region) and investment.
What makes exchange rates move? 
A currency that's rising in value may show the economic health of that country or region is improving – or there’s the prospect of improvement.
How does inflation affect exchange rates?
Some inflation is healthy for an economy, as it shows there's an increasing demand. But too much inflation can be a problem, as goods and services become less affordable.
When setting official interest rates, central banks consider this balance. The Bank of England has an inflation target of 2%. In May 2023 it said inflation was too high but it expected it to meet the 2% target by late 2024 meet the 2% target by late 2024 This link will open in a new window.
But if inflation is rising too fast, a central bank may increase interest rates. Higher rates can make it more expensive to borrow and more rewarding to save, reducing demand and slowing inflation.
How do interest rates affect exchange rates?
Higher interest rates can increase a currency’s value. They can attract more international investment, which means more money coming into a country or region and higher demand for the currency.
If inflation is below its target level, a central bank may look to reduce its interest rates. This can make it cheaper to borrow and less rewarding to save, which encourages people to spend. The increase in demand can push inflation higher.
How does international trade affect exchange rates?
A country or region’s trading relationship with the rest of the world can also affect its currency. If it exports more than it imports, it’s known as a trade surplus. It will typically have a stronger currency than those with trade deficits.
Market expectations
Market expectations play a big part in exchange rate fluctuations. These expectations will take into account the factors we've outlined on this page.
Other economic data, such as Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and unemployment rates, will also affect market expectations.
The economic and political stability of a country or region does too.
Back to top Back to top of page 
What's next? 
HSBC Travel Money 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Understanding travel money: what you need to know 
Setting up your finances abroad 
Sending money outside the UK: top tips\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/how-do-exchange-rates-work/
########Top of main content 
What is an EHIC and a GHIC? 
The old UK European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) and new UK Global Health Insurance Card (GHIC) both offer healthcare cover outside the UK. 
The EHIC is being phased out following Brexit. If you've used one before when on holiday, here's a handy guide to the differences between the 2 cards.
You might also want to read our tips on what you should add to your holiday checklist before you set off, including thinking about travel insurance and travel money.
What an EHIC or GHIC covers 
Both cards cover emergency medical treatment and visits to hospital A&E departments. It's worth remembering that they also cover routine medical care and treatment for pre-existing conditions. These are often excluded from travel insurance policies.
But you shouldn't think of an EHIC or GHIC as a replacement for travel insurance. That's because some health costs and things like being flown back to the UK aren't covered.
Bear in mind also that you can't use a GHIC or EHIC if you're travelling to the EU specifically to get treatment.
Differences between EHIC and GHIC 
Both types of card allow you to get state healthcare in the EU at a reduced cost or even for free.
Before Brexit, an EHIC was also valid in Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein or Switzerland. That has now changed, so you can only use a GHIC or existing EHIC in the EU. 
However, certain people who have rights under the Withdrawal Agreement can apply for a new UK EHIC. This card will cover Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Switzerland as well as the EU. Find out if you're eligible for a new UK EHIC Find out if you're eligible for a new UK EHIC This link will open in a new window.
Replacing your EHIC 
If you already have an EHIC, check the expiry date on the card. It remains valid until then, but after that date, you’ll have to apply for a GHIC apply for a GHIC This link will open in a new window to replace it. Cards are valid for 5 years so you may have lots of time left before yours expires. 
It's free to apply for a GHIC - you can go to the NHS website to get yours NHS website to get yours This link will open in a new window. 
As well as your full name address and date of birth, you’ll need to give one of the following:
National Insurance or NHS number (England and Wales) 
CHI number (Scotland) 
Health and Care number (Northern Ireland) 
There are websites which charge a fee, but there’s no need to pay anything. Just use the NHS website. 
Back to top 
What next? 
Why do I need travel insurance? 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Should you pay in local currency? 
Should you use a card or travel money? 
How do exchange rates work?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/international/what-is-an-ehic-and-ghic/
########Top of main content 
Paying off your student loan early 
Clearing any university debt you may have, including your student loan, can be a weight off your shoulders. 
If you’re able to clear your debt in one go, or make extra student loan repayments, there’s no penalty for doing so. You should check when the loan will be written off before repaying or making extra payments.
Making minimum student loan repayments 
Once you earn over a certain limit earn over a certain limit This link will open in a new window, you’ll automatically start paying back your student loan. This is done through your employer and will be the minimum amount you need to pay back. Even if you left your course early, you’ll need to repay anything you borrowed from the Student Loans Company (SLC).
When you’ll need to start paying your student loan back depends on what kind of student loan plan what kind of student loan plan This link will open in a new window you have.
You’ll need to repay maintenance loans, tuition fee loans and postgraduate loans. If you received any bursaries or grants, these don’t need to be paid back – unless you were overpaid.
Making extra student loan payments 
Alongside payments through your employer, you can make extra repayments make extra repayments This link will open in a new window. This can help clear the debt faster and will eventually mean you no longer need to make the minimum repayments – leaving you with more money each month. 
You’ll need to contact the SLC contact the SLC This link will open in a new window beforehand and then you’ll be able to make extra payments through bank transfer, Direct Debit or by cheque. 
If you don’t want to make extra repayments, you don’t have to. You’ll need to keep paying the minimum amount if you’re earning over the threshold, but you don’t have to overpay if you don’t want to. 
Paying off your student loan in full 
If you want to clear the whole debt at once and you can afford to, there’s an option to pay off your loan in full. If you’re employed, you’ll need to have your latest payslip. 
You’ll need to contact the SLC who will tell you your settlement amount (the total you need to pay) and the settlement date (the date it needs to be paid by). You’ll then be able to pay this by bank transfer, with your debit card over the phone, or by cheque. 
If you don’t pay off the settlement amount by the settlement date, you’ll need to contact SLC again. This is because the amount you owe may have changed.
What to do if you’ve overpaid your student loan 
If you’ve made too many payments to the SLC, you should be able to get the money refunded get the money refunded This link will open in a new window. They may contact you directly to let you know how to get a refund, or you may need to contact them.
Things to consider 
Before you make additional payments on your student loan, consider any other debts you have and if it'd make sense to clear them first. These could be debts which charge a higher interest rate and are ultimately costing you more money.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Guides to help you manage your debt 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Managing your money when you enter the workplace 
How to manage bills 
How to prioritise your debts\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/paying-off-your-student-loan-early/
########Top of main content 
Everyday spending hacks to help you save money 
It can feel difficult to grow your savings without having to constantly cut back on the things you enjoy. 
If you’re struggling to free up cash to save, here are some ways to save money without feeling like you’re missing out.
Plan a budget 
Check your utility providers 
Reduce your spending at the supermarket 
Cut fuel costs 
Cancel unnecessary subscriptions 
Search for discounts 
Save money on insurance 
Review your debts 
Look into tax relief and benefits 
Check what you're entitled to 
1. Plan a budget 
Setting out what you’re spending and where, can help you see where your money’s going and where you could potentially make changes. You may find you’re overspending at certain online retailers, or you’re still paying for subscriptions you no longer use.
Use 3 months’ worth of bank statements to get a more accurate idea of your spending habits, and make sure to factor in any yearly costs you may have. 
Our budget planning tool can help you get started. 
You could also use money management tools to help you stay on top of your spending. For example, if you have the HSBC Mobile Banking app, you can use transaction notifications to keep track of your spending. You can set up notifications for spending or receiving money – or both.
2. Check your utility providers 
Comparison websites allow you compare quotes, to see if you're getting the best price for your household expenses, such as gas, electricity or broadband.
Even saving a small amount each month can really add up over the course of a year. If you’re able to switch to cheaper deals, try putting the amount you’ve saved each month into your savings account. You could set up a standing order so you don’t even have to think about it.
Get more tips about managing your bills.
3. Reduce your spending at the supermarket 
Food shopping is one of the biggest weekly expenses for families in the UK. From setting a budget, to planning your meals and storing your food, there's a range of things you can do to cut your spending.
Find out more about how to save money at the supermarket.
4. Cut fuel costs 
Making small changes can also help reduce possible fuel costs. Here are some ideas:
look for the best prices in your area – even taking a small detour to visit a cheaper petrol station could save you a few pence for every litre 
take advantage of loyalty card schemes – the more you fill up, the more points you can earn to exchange for money-off vouchers 
accelerate gradually – this saves you needing to use more power than necessary and can also reduce the chance of having to brake heavily 
remove any excess weight from the car 
lower your windows rather than using the air conditioning when it’s hot 
check the pressure of your tyres regularly to make sure they’re at the right level 
5. Cancel unnecessary subscriptions 
Whether it’s fitness apps, TV or magazine subscriptions, it’s easy to sign up to different services and then forget about them. 
Take a look at your transactions and make a list of all the subscription services you’re paying for. 
Are there any you don’t use? Start by cutting those. Then look at those you do use – are there any you could do without? You could try cutting those temporarily to see whether you miss them.
Find out more about saving money on your subscriptions.
6. Search for discounts 
When shopping online, you’ll see various deals and promo codes. Sometimes, you may have to do something like sign up to a newsletter to receive 10% off your next order. Other times, there may be a promo code you can find that will offer you a better deal.
It can pay to do a bit of online research to find the latest discounts.
Like with your bills, if you’re able to, you could add any money you save to your savings account.
7. Save money on insurance 
Whether it’s car insurance, or home and contents insurance, there are a few ways you could lower your insurance premiums. 
Paying annually or increasing your voluntary excess may be a way to bring your costs down. If you do decide to increase your excess, just make sure you’re able to pay this if you need to make a claim.
You may be able to find the same level of cover at a cheaper price from a different provider, so it can sometimes help to shop around. 
Explore: How to save money on your home insurance
8. Review your debts 
If you have a personal loan, credit card, overdraft or mortgage, you’re likely being charged interest. Depending on your situation, you may be able to minimise the amount of interest you pay and reduce your monthly repayments. 
Credit card debt 
A balance transfer will often let you transfer the balance from one credit card provider to another, offering an interest-free period. If you’re able to clear your debt within that interest-free period, you could potentially save a significant amount of money in interest payments.
See how to use a balance transfer and what to consider.
Personal loan, overdraft and credit card debt 
A debt consolidation loan may offer a lower interest rate than overdrafts, credit cards and store cards. Or, if you have multiple debts, a debt consolidation loan may help you bring them all together and create a clear repayment plan.
Keep in mind – while you may be able to reduce your monthly repayments with a debt consolidation loan, you may end up repaying more in interest over the long-term. 
Find out more about how debt consolidation loans work.
Mortgages 
If you have a mortgage, you may look to switch mortgage rates or remortgage, to find a better deal. Switching occurs when you change rates with your existing mortgage provider. Remortgaging is when you move your mortgage from one lender to another.
There may be fees and charges to pay when switching or remortgaging, so make sure you understand what these are before you decide.
9. Look into tax relief and benefits 
If you're a PAYE taxpayer, there may be ways you can make savings on your taxes. For example, you could be entitled to \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/everyday-spending-hacks/
########Top of main content 
Tips for paying off your credit card 
Paying off your credit card in a smart way can reduce the amount of interest you pay, save you money and help you manage your debt. 
Here are some tips to help you get started. 
Pay more than just the minimum payment 
With a credit card, you can decide how much you repay each month. For example:
the minimum payment amount set by the credit card provider 
the monthly credit card balance in full; or 
a set amount of your choice (over the minimum payment amount) 
Ideally, you should aim to pay off your balance in full every month to avoid paying interest on purchases. If you can’t, aim to pay as much as you can. This way, you’ll clear your balance quicker and pay less in interest. If it helps, you can stagger your repayments through the month so you chip away at the debt.
Use our credit card repayment calculator to show how you could reduce the interest and pay the balance faster by increasing your monthly payment.
Work out how much you can afford to repay 
Use our helpful credit card repayment calculator to see the potential impact of increasing your monthly repayments.
Creating a budget can help you work out how much you can afford to repay each month. It can also help you manage your spending – so you can avoid having to rely on your credit card between paydays and adding to any debt you may have. 
If you’re an HSBC customer with mobile banking, you may be able to use our Balance After Bills tool. This helps you plan ahead by showing you how much you’ll have available once your regular standing orders and Direct Debits have left your account. 
Pay by Direct Debit 
Setting up a Direct Debit for credit card repayments can help you avoid fees and give you one less thing to worry about. Set up a recurring monthly payment for as much as you can afford to pay off (at least the minimum repayment).
You can still make other payments throughout the month so you can clear the debt faster. But you’ll need to make sure you have enough money in your account to cover the Direct Debit and avoid going into your overdraft. 
If you have an HSBC credit card, we can send you reminders and alerts when your payments are almost due or you’re approaching your credit limit.
Use your savings to repay debt 
If you have money left over each month, you may consider using it to build up your savings or repay debt. If the interest you’re charged on a credit card is greater than the interest you’ll earn through savings, you may want to pay off your debt first. 
Credit cards and overdrafts are seen as short-term borrowing options. Ideally, you should try and pay off your credit card as quickly as possible, especially if you’re charged interest.
Consider a 0% balance transfer credit card 
If you’re being charged interest on your credit card, a 0% balance transfer credit card could save you money. It allows you to move debt onto a card that offers an interest-free period on the money transferred. Not only can this give you more time to pay off your debt without being charged interest, it can help you pay it off quicker and cheaper. 
Explore: What is a balance transfer?
Paying off your credit card when you have multiple debts 
You may have another credit card, overdraft or loan to pay too. Having multiple debts can feel overwhelming at times, but you’re not alone. 
There are things you can do to help you feel in control of your finances:
Prioritise your debts 
A cost effective option may be to repay the debt with the highest interest rate first, as it’s charging you the most to borrow the money. Alternatively, you may decide to pay the smallest debt off first to reduce the number of debts you need to think about. Remember, you’ll still have to meet the minimum repayments on all.
Explore: How to prioritise your debts
Consider debt consolidation 
Debt consolidation is when you merge existing debts, at different financial institutions, into a single loan. It can help you simplify repayments and reduce stress. 
Explore: How does debt consolidation work?
Reach out for support 
If your debts do feel too much, or you just need someone to talk to, there is support available to help you get back on track. 
If you’re with HSBC, you can call us on 0800 028 7183 for a helping hand.
Lines are open:
Monday to Friday 08:00 to 18:00
Saturday 08:00 to 16:00
Please note, lines will not be open on public holidays. 
Explore: Where to go for assistance
Persistent debt on your credit card 
We can help if you're paying more in interest, fees and charges over an 18-month period than you do towards the amount you’ve borrowed on your credit card.
Explore: How to get out of persistent debt
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Get tips and advice on managing debt 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Tips for using your credit card 
How to avoid credit card charges 
What is APR?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/tips-for-paying-off-your-credit-card/
########Top of main content 
Paying your mortgage off early 
Paying off a mortgage feels good. If you can afford to, there are ways you can repay the debt more quickly, even years earlier. 
This can reduce the amount of interest you pay, save you money and take you closer to being mortgage free.
So how do you achieve it? Here are some ways to pay off your mortgage early, the benefits of doing so, and things to consider. 
Ways to pay off your mortgage early 
Any extra money you pay into your mortgage, over your standard monthly payment, is called an overpayment. There are a few ways you can do this:
1. Make a regular overpayment 
A regular overpayment is when you pay more than your standard monthly payment each month. You can do this in two ways:
contact your lender and ask them to increase your Direct Debit amount each month 
set up a standing order to make additional payments each month 
If your monthly payment is £1,000 and you choose to pay £1,200 instead, by either increasing your Direct Debit or setting up a Standing Order, this is a monthly overpayment of £200. As this is not part of your standard (or contractual) mortgage payment, you can cancel or amend this amount when it suits you. You should check with your lender what methods they allow for regular overpayments if you’re not sure.
2. Make a lump sum payment 
If you’re looking to pay more off your mortgage but prefer to do it now and again, rather than every month, you can consider making lump sum payments.
How much extra can you pay towards your mortgage? 
The amount of extra money you can pay off your mortgage without a fee can vary and will depend on the type of product you are currently on. It’s important to check with your lender how much extra you can pay off your mortgage so you can avoid any potential early repayment charge (ERC).
If you're on a fixed rate of interest 
Most lenders allow you to pay up to 10% of your loan balance each year without incurring an ERC. This is called an annual overpayment allowance (AOA). If you go over your AOA, there could be an ERC.
If you're on a variable rate of interest, such as a tracker rate 
Most lenders allow you to make unlimited overpayments without incurring an ERC.
The above isn’t the case for every lender so you should always check how much extra you’re able to pay before deciding on any overpayments.
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can log on to online banking to view details of your annual overpayment allowance or call our mortgage specialists on 0800 169 6333.
Benefits of paying more towards your mortgage 
If you have a repayment mortgage, your standard monthly payment is used to pay the interest that has accrued on the capital balance of your loan since your last monthly payment and some of it is used to reduce the balance.
When you make an overpayment to your mortgage, all of that payment goes directly towards reducing your mortgage balance (assuming that your account is up to date and that there are no arrears). This has these key effects:
As your mortgage balance is lower, you’ll pay less interest on your balance. For most lenders this applies from the date you make any overpayment so the benefit is immediate. 
As the balance reduces more quickly, your original mortgage term may shorten, enabling you to finish paying off your mortgage earlier. 
As your mortgage term shortens, it means that you won’t be paying interest for as long, potentially saving thousands of pounds. 
When your mortgage balance reduces, it will give you a lower loan to valuation (LTV) ratio. If you were to then switch mortgage rate or remortgage to a new lender, having a lower LTV could make you eligible for lower rates. 
Try our overpayments calculator
Should you overpay on your mortgage? 
Making overpayments to help pay off your mortgage early is a great option for some, but there are things to consider:
Does your mortgage allow you to make overpayments? 
If your mortgage has an annual overpayment allowance, paying extra towards your mortgage could save you money. But you will need to stay within this limit to avoid an ERC.
Do you have expensive debts to pay? 
Credit cards, loans and overdrafts tend to have higher interest rates than mortgages. You may consider paying these expensive debts off first before you overpay on your mortgage.
Do you have an emergency fund? 
If you don’t already, it’s a good idea to build up savings before paying extra off your mortgage. You should ideally have 3 to 6 months’ worth of living costs as your emergency fund. This way, if you’re hit with an unexpected bill, you’re more likely to have available money rather than needing to borrow.
How to make overpayments and additional payments 
If you have a mortgage which allows you to make overpayments, you can contact your lender to change your payment amount.
Most lenders allow you to set up a Direct Debit or transfer a lump sum to your mortgage account online or over the phone.
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can log on to online banking or call our mortgage specialists on 0800 169 6333.
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is home equity? 
Should you save or pay off debt? 
How to make your home energy efficient\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/paying-your-mortgage-off-early/
########Top of main content 
Fund directory 
Browse the fund managers and funds in our online fund platform 
Choose from a wide range of funds 
Select a fund manager to see the funds we have available. You can also find links to their value assessment reports.
Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited
Allianz Global Investors UK Limited
Artemis Fund Managers Limited
Aviva Investors UK Fund Services Limited
Baillie Gifford & Co Limited
BlackRock Investment Management Limited
BNY Mellon Fund Managers Limited (Newton)
Columbia Threadneedle Investment Funds
FIL Investment Services (UK) Limited (Fidelity)
First Sentier Investors (UK) Funds Limited
HSBC Global Asset Management (UK) Ltd
Invesco Fund Managers Limited
Janus Henderson Investment Funds Limited
JPMorgan Funds Limited
Jupiter Unit Trust Managers Limited
Legal & General (Unit Trust Managers) Limited
Liontrust Investment Management Limited
M&G Securities Limited
Ninety One Fund Managers UK Limited
Sarasin Investment Funds Limited
Schroder Unit Trusts Limited
Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited 
Funds available from Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited. To assess the value for money that these funds offer, read the relevant Aberdeen Standard assessment of value reportAberdeen Standard assessment of value report This link will open in a new window. 
Fund Name
Fund Type
Sector
More Information 
abrdn Asia Pacific Equity Fund I Accumulation
Accumulation	Asia Pacific Including Japan	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window
	
abrdn Asia Pacific Equity Fund I Income
Income	Asia Pacific Excluding Japan	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
abrdn Ethical Corporate Bond Fund Accumulation Accumulation	Ethical	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window
	
abrdn Ethical Corporate Bond Fund Income Income	Ethical	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
abrdn Global Equity Fund I Accumulation
Accumulation	Global	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window
	
abrdn Global Equity Fund I Income
Income	Global	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
abrdn Global Sustainable and Responsible Investment Equity Fund I Accumulation Accumulation	Global	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
abrdn Global Sustainable and Responsible Investment Equity Fund I Income
Income	Global	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
abrdn Japanese Equity Fund I Accumulation
Accumulation	Japan	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
abrdn Latin American Equity Fund I Accumulation
Accumulation	Specialist	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
Aberdeen My Portfolio Multi-Manager III - I Accumulation Accumulation	Volatility Managed	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
Aberdeen My Portfolio Multi-Manager III - I Income Income	Volatility Managed	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
Aberdeen My Portfolio Multi-Manager V - I Accumulation Accumulation	Volatility Managed	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
Aberdeen My Portfolio Multi-Manager V - I Income Income	Volatility Managed	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
abrdn Sterling Money Market Fund I Accumulation
Accumulation	Money Market	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window
	
abrdn Sterling Money Market Fund I Income
Income	Money Market	See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
abrdn UK Ethical Equity Fund Accumulation Accumulation

	Ethical	See costs and charges
	
abrdn UK Ethical Equity Fund Income Income	Ethical	See costs and charges	
Aberdeen UK Sustainable and Responsible Investment Equity I Acc Accumulation	UK All Companies	See costs and charges	
Aberdeen UK Sustainable and Responsible Investment Equity I Inc Income	UK All Companies	See costs and charges	
Funds available from Aberdeen Standard Fund Managers Limited. To assess the value for money that these funds offer, read the relevant Aberdeen Standard assessment of value reportAberdeen Standard assessment of value report This link will open in a new window. 
Fund Name
abrdn Asia Pacific Equity Fund I Accumulation
	
Fund Type
Accumulation	
Sector
Asia Pacific Including Japan	
More Information See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window
	
	
Fund Name
abrdn Asia Pacific Equity Fund I Income
	
Fund Type
Income	
Sector
Asia Pacific Excluding Japan	
More Information See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
	
Fund Name
abrdn Ethical Corporate Bond Fund Accumulation	
Fund Type
Accumulation	
Sector
Ethical	
More Information See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window
	
	
Fund Name
abrdn Ethical Corporate Bond Fund Income	
Fund Type
Income	
Sector
Ethical	
More Information See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
	
Fund Name
abrdn Global Equity Fund I Accumulation
	
Fund Type
Accumulation	
Sector
Global	
More Information See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window
	
	
Fund Name
abrdn Global Equity Fund I Income
	
Fund Type
Income	
Sector
Global	
More Information See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
	
Fund Name
abrdn Global Sustainable and Responsible Investment Equity Fund I Accumulation 	
Fund Type
Accumulation	
Sector
Global	
More Information See costs and chargesSee costs and charges This link will open in a new window	
	
Fund Name
abrdn Global Sustainable and Responsible Investment Equity Fund I Income
	
Fund Type
Income	
Sector
Global\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/investments/products/global-investment-centre/funds/
########Top of main content 
How to get a mortgage: buy to let guide 
How the process works if you're buying to let 
Whether you're expanding your property portfolio or just starting out as a landlord, a buy-to-let investment can be a big commitment. Once you've decided to go ahead the mortgage process is relatively straightforward, though we'll ask you for some extra information to help us evaluate your application.
Contact us 
0800 1696333†
Table of contents 
Deciding to buy
Finding out how much you could borrow
Looking for a property
Applying for a mortgage
Appointing a solicitor or licensed conveyancer
Valuing your property
Reviewing your mortgage offer
Finalising the legal work
Exchanging and completing
1. Deciding to buy 
If you're going to invest in a buy-to-let property your decision must make commercial sense.
You'll need to research demand for rental property and, as you'll be responsible for paying the mortgage, know how you'd manage if you couldn't find tenants or the rental market changed.
As a landlord, you will have to be prepared for the risks and responsibilities that are involved. These include one-off fees and ongoing costs, some of which you can offset against the tax payable on your potential rental income. You may be liable for a number of other taxes. (HSBC cannot provide tax advice; we recommend that you talk to a tax expert.)
There's more information on this in our buy-to-let factsheetbuy-to-let factsheet This link will open in a new window.
2. Finding out how much you could borrow 
Once you've decided to go ahead, your first step is to apply for a Decision in Principle. This shows how much you may be able to borrow from us. It's based on what you tell us, our security checks and a soft credit check; this won't appear on your credit file.
You can apply for a Decision in Principle online, over the phone or at a branch. You'll get a certificate to show estate agents that you're serious about your property search.
Buy-to-let mortgages work a little differently from standard residential ones. When we think about how affordable a buy-to-let mortgage is, we consider the expected monthly income you'll get from renting out the property, not your current salary. You'll need to have a deposit of at least 25% and we have a maximum lending limit.
If you've decided to buy or remortgage a buy-to-let property with HSBC, you'll also need to meet our eligibility criteria.
3. Looking for a property 
When you're house hunting for a property to rent out, you need to think like a landlord. Look for a great location and take a property wish list to your viewings.
Once you've found your property and had an offer accepted, it's time for your mortgage application.
4. Applying for a mortgage 
You can apply for your mortgage over the phone, at a branch or online.
We'll ask you to provide some supporting documentssupporting documents This link will open in a new window so that we can evaluate your mortgage application. We'll also want to know about the rental income you're expecting and potential running costs for the property, as well as details of any other buy-to-let properties you own. Have all this ready as it will help the process go as smoothly as possible. 
Applying in a branch or over the phone
Arrange an appointment with one of our mortgage advisers. We are not able to provide any advice on buy to let mortgages but we can take you through your application
Before your mortgage appointment, provide us with your supporting documentssupporting documents This link will open in a new window
Applying online
You can complete your mortgage application online. Please note we are not able to provide any advice on buy to let mortgages
Use our Mortgage Document Uploader service to provide your supporting documents. We'll email you the link for this after you've completed your mortgage application
Once we've got all the information we need, we'll review your application and let you know the decision as soon as possible by phone, email or text.
5. Appointing a solicitor or licensed conveyancer 
A solicitor or licensed conveyancer will look after all the legal aspects of your purchase. It's your responsibility to appoint one so try asking friends for recommendations or research local firms.
Once you've chosen your solicitor or licensed conveyancer, we'll check to see if they meet our criteria. If they do, then your chosen firm can act for you and HSBC.
6. Valuing your property 
We'll value your property to check that it's suitable security for the amount you want to borrow. 
We won't charge you for this Standard Valuation report. You can arrange for a Homebuyer Report or a full Building Survey if you want to understand the condition of your property.
If a survey is being arranged through the tenant or letting agent, we recommend you tell them to expect a call from one of our third-party suppliers. This will avoid any unnecessary delays where the valuer can't get in touch with the tenant or letting agent.
If a survey can't be arranged, the surveyor will contact you directly and let you know what to do next.
7. Reviewing your mortgage offer 
If we've approved your mortgage application, we'll send you the offer documents to review, usually by email. You don't need to contact us unless there's anything you don't understand or if something looks incorrect.
8. Finalising the legal work 
Your solicitor or licensed conveyancer will carry out all the relevant enquiries and searches for your property. They'll also get your seller to complete a questionnaire about the property and ask you for your deposit.
9. Exchanging and completing 
Once the legal work is done, you're ready to agree your completion date with your solicitor or licensed conveyancer and exchange contracts. The completion date is when we'll release the funds for your mortgage – and the property is yours.
How to apply 
New Application 
Applying for a mortgage involves two stages, firstly getting a Decision in Principle; secondly making a mortgage app\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/guidance/buy-to-let-guide/
########Top of main content 
How to choose a location when buying a property 
From school catchment areas to property prices and the potential to make money – choosing where to live is an important part of buying a home. 
But that doesn't necessarily mean looking at the most expensive postcodes in town. 
The secret to finding an ideal area is to consider your lifestyle, what facilities and amenities are important to you, and how much you can afford. You can then pinpoint the best location to match your needs.
Know what you can afford 
If you’re looking to take out a mortgage to fund a property, it can help to apply for a Decision in Principle (DIP) before you begin house hunting.
A DIP gives you an idea of how much you could borrow without affecting your credit rating. 
Knowing this can help you focus on properties and locations within your budget. You can also show it to estate agents to prove you’re a serious buyer.
Are you buying a home to live in or a property to let out? 
This makes a big difference to what you're looking for in an area. Our handy guide will help you prioritise the things that matter to you or your rental market.
If you're buying a property to live in, ask yourself:
Do I want to be near a lively social scene? 
Would I prefer a quieter environment? 
What amenities would I like within easy reach? 
How easy is it to commute to work? 
Explore: What should you look for when buying a home?
If you're buying a property to let, ask yourself:
What is my rental market (eg students, professionals, families)? 
Which amenities are desirable to them? 
Are transport links important? 
Does the area offer what they need? 
Explore: What to look for in a buy-to-let property
What to look for in an area 
Now you're focused on who you're buying for and what's important, it's time to consider what different areas have to offer and whether they're right for you:
Desirable amenities 
Whether it's a busy city centre, bustling town High Street or the local village, every area has its hub of essential amenities. The question is, which ones would you like within walking distance, and which are you happy to travel to? Amenities may include: 
Supermarkets 
Cafes, pubs, and restaurants 
Petrol stations 
Shops 
Post offices 
Chemists 
Doctors 
Dentists 
Garages 
Libraries 
Gyms 
Some less-than-desirable features 
There are some things you may not want to live close to, so it's worth finding out where these are:
Electricity pylons 
Waste treatment works 
Chemical plants 
Busy rail routes 
Main flight paths 
High flood-risk areas 
Entertainment facilities 
A wide range of entertainment facilities is often a sign of a thriving community. But it's worth considering how close you want to be with the potential extra noise and traffic from:
Theatres 
Art galleries 
Restaurants 
Pubs 
Cinemas 
Transport links 
If you and your family need to commute to work and school, think about the convenience of being close to any of the following:
Motorway networks 
Trains 
Tubes 
Trams 
Bus routes 
Community groups 
If you have a hobby or enjoy a particular sport, you may want to check if there are any organised groups in the area. These could include sports teams, a local amateur theatre, allotment facilities, or a church choir.
School catchment area 
Location has a direct influence on which school a child can attend. To find out more information on school catchment areas, visit GOV.UK GOV.UK This link will open in a new window.
Signs of an up-and-coming area 
If you're hoping to make money in the long term by buying a property in an up-and-coming area, there's no fool proof formula. But there are some classic clues to look out for:
Niche food chains like delis, independent boutiques, coffee shops and cafes 
New estate agent branches opening in the area 
New major road or rail links 
Interest from property developers 
Regeneration projects by local councils 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
10 steps to buying your own home 
What types of mortgages are there? 
How make an offer on a property\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/choosing-a-location/
########Top of main content 
Fixed Rate Mortgage 
Fixed rate mortgages ensure consistent repayments for an agreed term 
Predictable payments for a fixed period of time 
A fixed rate mortgage provides the security of fixed mortgage repayments until an agreed date, no matter what happens to interest rates. 
And like all of our mortgage products the greater your equity or deposit, the lower your Loan to Value (LTV) ratio is, and so the better the rate HSBC can offer you. The LTV represents the percentage of the value of the property which you are seeking to borrow. For example, a £100k property with an £80k mortgage = 80% LTV. 
The amount you repay each month will stay the same for the fixed term, regardless of what happens to interest rates. 
We offer fixed rate mortgages over a range of periods. At the end of the fixed rate period your mortgage will revert to the HSBC Standard Variable rate or HSBC Buy to Let Standard Variable rate unless you successfully apply for another product (e.g. another fixed-rate or tracker mortgage).
An Early Repayment Charge (ERC) applies to some of our products. As long as you do not exceed your annual overpayment allowance during a year when the ERC applies, you can make as many overpayments as you like within that year. If you exceed your annual overpayment allowance, the ERC will be charged on the amount you have repaid over the allowance.
Key information about our fixed rate mortgages 
Interest rate type: Interest payable will be fixed during the fixed rate period. When the fixed period ends, the rate will move to the HSBC Standard Variable rate or HSBC Buy to Let Standard Variable rate.
Is interest calculated daily? The interest chargeable on the outstanding mortgage balance is calculated every day rather than at the end of each week, month or year.
Can I make overpayments without incurring Early Repayment Charges (ERC)? An Early Repayment Charge (ERC) is a charge you may have to pay if you repay the whole or part of your mortgage early (which includes when you move to a different HSBC product or move to a different lender) during a certain period.

You'll have an annual overpayment allowance (AOA) to enable you to make additional payments during the fixed rate period without incurring an early repayment charge. The allowance is equivalent to 10% of the outstanding balance of your mortgage calculated on each anniversary of the start of your fixed rate period. Anything over this will incur an early repayment charge. 
Is there an exit fee? You don’t have to pay an exit fee when you fully repay your mortgage. 
Can I 'port' my loan if I move home? Yes. This is the term used to describe transferring your current HSBC mortgage rate from one property to another when you sell your property and buy another simultaneously. This is subject to terms and conditions.
Fixed rate fees and charges 
View HSBC Fixed rate mortgages 
Contact us 
0800 169 6333†
How to apply 
New Application 
Applying for a mortgage involves 2 stages, firstly getting a Decision in Principle; secondly making a mortgage application.
Apply Apply for a fixed rate mortgage here 
Already started an application? 
If you started a mortgage application over the phone or online, you can log on to complete it or track its progress. 
Continue Continue your application 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
† Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/fixed-rate-mortgages/
########Top of main content 
How to make an offer on a property 
From asking the right questions to negotiating tactics, there's a lot to think about. Here are some tips to help you make an offer on a property. 
What do you need to know before making an offer on a home? 
Once you find the right property, it helps to get a complete picture before deciding how much to offer. Asking the right questions will help you understand more about what the seller's motives are, and whether there’s likely to be competition from other buyers.
Things to ask the estate agent before making an offer include:
How long have the current owners lived at the property? 
Have the owners found somewhere to move to? 
How long has the property been on the market? 
Has the price been reduced? 
Have there been any offers so far? 
Is the property being marketed by more than one estate agent? 
Are any fixtures and fittings included? 
How much tax would you need to pay on the property, if applicable? 
A good tip is to check to see if any old listings are still available online. This will give you an idea of how long the owners have lived there, and how much they paid.
How much should you offer on a property? 
To help set your budget and work out how much you can afford, you can use an online mortgage calculator. It’s also a good idea to speak to a mortgage adviser. When you contact estate agents to enquire about properties you’re interested in, don’t reveal your full budget as you'll want room to negotiate.
When finalising your budget, make sure to factor in any potential work that will need to be done to the property once you buy it. Even simple renovations can be expensive.
The offer process when buying a home 
The most common way of making an offer on a home is:
Make an offer to the estate agent. 
Follow up your offer in writing, or email. 
Wait for the seller to come back and accept or reject your offer. 
If they accept the offer 
Ask for the property to be taken off the market immediately, and all upcoming viewings to be cancelled. This is to avoid anyone offering a higher price after the seller accepts your offer. This is known as ‘gazumping’.
When this is done and you receive written confirmation that your offer has been accepted, you can formally apply for your mortgage.
You can now instruct your solicitor or licensed conveyancer to start the legal work.
You might also arrange for a surveyor to carry out an independent survey on the property to flag any potential problems.
If they don’t accept the offer 
Don’t rush into making a higher offer until you’ve worked out what you can sensibly afford and whether the property is worth the extra amount.
Things to mention when you make an offer 
When you make an offer on a house or flat, don’t forget to mention anything that may set you apart from other buyers. For example:
Are you chain-free or in a small chain? 
Do you already have a Decision in Principle from your mortgage lender? 
Do you have a sizeable cash deposit? 
Do you already have a solicitor or licensed conveyancer? 
How to negotiate when buying a home 
There's no magic formula to decide how much you should offer on a home. Remember, the estate agent is working for the seller and that is how they make their money. Always try to stay friendly and keep your cool.
If you're not confident with negotiating, practise with a family member before you make the offer over the phone. If negotiating is really not one of your skills, you can use a buyer’s agent.
What is the sealed bid system when buying a home? 
Sealed bids may be used in areas where there's a lot of competition, such as London. Interested prospective buyers put their maximum offer in a sealed envelope and the seller chooses the highest offer.
It’s worth asking the estate agent roughly what other buyers are going to offer. Remember, the estate agent is acting for the seller. Another tip is to go slightly higher than the nearest round number, so £400,500 rather than £400,000.
What is a holding deposit when buying a property? 
If the seller accepts your offer, you may need to put down a small deposit to the estate agent. This is known as the holding deposit and is repayable if the sale doesn’t go ahead.
Buying a home in Scotland 
It’s important to know that the home-buying process differs in Scotland. When you make an offer on a property in Scotland (and all the conditions have been met) it is legally binding; unlike in England & Wales, where it isn’t until you exchange contracts with your seller. 
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is conveyancing and how does it work? 
What's the difference between freehold and leasehold properties? 
Timeline for buying a home\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/how-make-offer-house/
########Top of main content 
What is a mortgage valuation and how does it work? 
A mortgage valuation is a specific type of assessment done by the mortgage lender to help them confirm the property’s value. It’s also used to see if the property will be a suitable security for the loan you’ve applied for. Your lender will usually arrange a mortgage valuation.
Here, we answer some of your common questions:
What are mortgage valuations used for?
What does a mortgage valuation involve?
What might a lender need from you?
What happens if the mortgage valuation is less than the property price?
How much does a mortgage valuation cost?
What is a home survey?
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What is a mortgage valuation used for? 
Alongside confirming the property’s value and suitable security for the loan, a mortgage valuation also helps the lender work out the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio. This is the amount you want to borrow in relation to the value of your home. The LTV determines the mortgage rates you are eligible for.
It’s important to note that a mortgage valuation is carried out for the lender’s purposes only, and not on your behalf. 
An estate agent’s appraisal or valuation is not the same. These are made by the estate agent with a view to advising the owner of the property what they should place it on the market for. 
What does a mortgage valuation involve? 
Mortgage valuations are completed by qualified surveyors, or calculated using an Automated Valuation Model (AVM). Your lender will arrange for this to happen. 
The surveyor doesn’t always need to visit the property to carry out the valuation, and they can be done fairly quickly – often within 1 to 2 weeks. 
The lender will then use the mortgage valuation to help decide if the property is a suitable security for the loan you’ve applied for.
A valuation and a mortgage lending decision are independent of each other. Once the lender is happy with both, they will usually make you a mortgage offer. 
Mortgage valuations on buy-to-let properties will also include an estimated or potential ‘rental value’ – based on rents being achieved in the area. This helps the lender calculate the lending amount, or LTV ratio, on a buy-to-let mortgage.
What might a lender need from you? 
New Home (Structural Defects) Warranty 
Sometimes, a lender may ask for a New Home Warranty if the property is under 10 years old, or has been extensively renovated or converted. The warranty is provided by the developer or purchased by the original homeowner. They are designed to provide cover in respect of the cost of carrying out repairs or remedial works arising out of structural defects in new or converted buildings. 
External Wall System (EWS1) form 
An EWS1 form is completed by a qualified professional following a fire safety assessment of the building’s external wall system, such as cladding.
The surveyor undertaking the mortgage valuation will identify whether an EWS1 form is required. Usually, the building owner is responsible for obtaining the EWS1 form. 
The EWS1 will indicate if the cladding is considered a fire risk. Where a fire risk is identified, HSBC will consider lending on flats in England which have suitable remediations schemes, and those where leaseholders are protected under the Building Safety Act. Where this risk is already known, an EWS1 report is not required.
What happens if the mortgage valuation is less than the property price? 
Sometimes, a property is valued at less than expected. If it affects the amount of money you can borrow, or the rates available to you, this is called a ‘down valuation’. 
The mortgage lender may reduce the amount of money they are willing to lend you. You may also not be able to borrow at the same interest rate. 
In some cases, lenders may let you challenge the outcome of the valuation. At HSBC, you may be able to challenge a valuation amount if the valuation difference is 20% or more, and your mortgage rate or amount is affected. 
How much does a mortgage valuation cost? 
Mortgage valuation fees can vary, depending on the type of property.11 view footnote 1 Some lenders, including HSBC, may not charge this fee on certain mortgage deals.
What is a home survey? 
While a mortgage valuation provides the value of the property for the lender, a home survey would report on the condition of the property.
It’s a very good idea to arrange for a home survey to be done on your behalf when buying a home, to flag any potential problems.
Visit the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) website to find a surveyor near you find a surveyor near you This link will open in a new window. 
You can choose the type of report you’d like, depending on how much detail you need:
RICS Home Survey – Level 1 
The most basic type of survey describes the condition of the property, identifies any risks and potential legal issues, and highlights any urgent defects. 
RICS Home Survey – Level 2 
This is most suitable for conventional properties, which are in reasonable condition. It includes all the features in level one and advice on defects. 
RICS Home Survey – Level 3 
The most comprehensive type of survey is suitable for larger, older, or run-down properties. 
Buyers in Scotland can also request a free Home Report from the seller – this contains an energy performance certificate, a property survey and questionnaire. 
Depending on the age and condition of the property, some lenders may request that specialist reports are carried out. For example, damp, timber or drain inspections.
Things to keep in mind 
You must not rely on a mortgage valuati\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/what-is-a-mortgage-valuation/
########Top of main content 
Your moving day checklist 
There's so much to think about when you're moving house but being prepared can reduce the stress. 
With this handy moving day checklist, you'll know exactly what to do, who to contact, and when.
6 weeks before you move: 
Currently renting your home? Check the terms of your contract to make sure that you give the required notice period, and let your landlord know your moving date 
Buying a property? Check your home insurance covers you from the date of exchange (this is the point where you sign a contact agreeing to buy the property, and the seller signs a contract agreeing to sell to you – these contracts are then exchanged) 
Using a removal firm to help with the move? Get written quotes from several removal firms, ask for references, and check the limits of their insurance 
Book extra storage space if required 
Notify the relevant utility companies that you're leaving your current home 
Have a good sort out and give any possessions you no longer need to friends or to charity 
2 weeks before you move: 
Start packing non-essential items, such as books and out-of-season clothes 
Redirect your post to go to your new address (there's a charge for this service) 
If you’re using a removal company, finalise your arrangements with them 
Notify your bank of any changes to your home address, Direct Debits and standing orders 
What to do on moving day 
Make a note of meter readings before you leave your current home 
Check everything’s packed and there's nothing left in any cupboards or the loft 
Be ready when the removal company arrives 
Check there's no damage when the removal company unloads your furniture 
Take meter readings in your new home 
Boil the kettle or open the champagne and celebrate! 
Who to notify when moving house 
Make a note of your key financial, utility, and personal contacts so they're there for you when you need them. 
Financial services: 
Bank or building society 
Credit card 
Loans 
Hire purchase agreements 
Pensions and investments 
Insurance companies: 
Home 
Car 
Life 
Pet 
Medical 
Utilities and services: 
Gas 
Electricity 
Water 
Phone 
Internet service provider 
Health: 
Doctor 
Dentist 
Optician 
Vet 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Home Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How much home insurance do you need? 
How to manage bills 
Checklist for moving overseas\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/moving-day-checklist/
########Top of main content 
Ways to help you get a mortgage 
Getting onto the housing ladder has plenty of challenges, not least getting approved for a mortgage. 
But there are things you can do to bring you closer to owning your own home. 
Here are 6 steps that could help boost your prospects of getting a mortgage.
1. Save up for a larger deposit 
Some lenders offer 95% mortgages – this means you only have to pay a 5% deposit. For example, if the property price is £200,000, you’ll need a £10,000 deposit to borrow £190,000. If you’re able to save up for a larger deposit, it could improve your prospects of getting a mortgage. 
A bigger deposit could mean:
a lower loan to value (LTV) ratio – the amount you borrow as a proportion of the overall purchase price – as you’ll need to borrow less 
access to lower interest rates and, therefore, lower monthly repayments 
You’ll also need to set aside some money to cover the costs of buying a property, such as conveyancing and survey fees and Stamp Duty (if payable). 
Explore: How to save for a housing deposit
2. Check if you can apply for government support 
Some of the government’s affordable housing schemes include: 
Help to Buy equity loan 
If you’re looking to buy a new-build property, you may be able to get a low-interest government loan to add to your own deposit. Please note HSBC does not participate in this scheme. 
Shared ownership 
This scheme helps you buy a share of your home (25% to 75% of the home’s value) and pay rent on the rest. You can then buy the remaining portion of your property when you can afford to. Please note HSBC can only participate in this scheme if you have the ability to gain 100% ownership of the property. 
Right to Buy / Right to Acquire 
If you’re a council or housing association tenant, this scheme can help you buy the property you currently rent, at a discount.
Forces Help to Buy 
If you’re a regular member of the armed forces, you may be able to borrow up to 50% of your salary interest free, to put towards a house deposit. 
Visit GOV.UK GOV.UK This link will open in a new window for more information on affordable home ownership schemes. 
3. Check and improve your credit score 
Lenders look at your credit score to help decide whether to accept your mortgage application. It can show them how you manage debt and credit commitments. A good credit score can improve your prospects of getting a mortgage. 
Before applying, it’s recommended that you check your credit report to correct any mistakes. 
There are also ways to improve your credit score. For example, you can join the electoral register – known as the electoral roll. This lists everyone who is registered to vote in the UK. Banks and building societies use this information to check that you are who you say you are. If your details are incorrect, or you fail to register, this can affect your ability to get lending. 
4. Pay your bills on time 
It’s important to get on top of your finances before you apply for a mortgage. If you’re struggling financially or potentially over-extending yourself, your application may not be approved. 
Missed and late payments can negatively affect your credit score. You can also be charged late-payment fees. Set up a Direct Debit on all your accounts to make sure every bill is paid on time and help you manage your money. These can include:
credit card and loan repayments 
utility bills 
mobile phone bills 
gym memberships 
Explore: How to manage bills 
5. Reduce existing debts 
Lenders want to be confident you can afford the repayments on your mortgage. If you have existing debt that also needs to be paid, they’ll take this into account when reviewing your application. 
Before you borrow more money, it’s a good idea to reduce your existing debt as much as possible. Creating a budget can help you understand where you could cut back to free up money each month. 
You can then make a plan to pay off debt. For example, you could start by:
paying off the most expensive debt first, to reduce the amount of interest you have to pay; or 
paying off the smallest debt first, to reduce the number of debts you have 
Remember, you’ll still have to meet the minimum repayments on all debts. 
Explore: How to get out of debt
6. Prepare for your mortgage application 
Being accurate and organised can help speed up the mortgage application process, increase your chances of getting accepted, and avoid any surprises. 
Before you apply for a mortgage, you may want to: 
make sure your details are correct and up-to-date, especially on your credit report 
remove yourself from joint accounts that you share with flatmates or an ex-partner, for example, as their credit history can impact yours 
check and collect what documents you may need, such as a months’ worth of payslips, P60 or an employment contract, or 2 years’ worth of Tax Calculations, Tax Year Overviews or financial accounts if self-employed 
make sure the information on your application matches the documents you provide 
Keep in mind – it’s important that you apply for a mortgage you can afford, even if your circumstances were to change. 
Explore: Mortgage application documents 

Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
First-time buyers 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How much could you borrow? 
What types of mortgages are there? 
Getting a mortgage when self-employed\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/ways-to-help-you-get-a-mortgage/
########Top of main content 
What are the costs involved in buying a property? 
From property surveys to legal fees and Stamp Duty, buying a property can come with lots of unexpected costs. These can vary depending on your situation. 
Before you start the process, make sure you’re prepared to cover these payments:
property survey 
mortgage valuation fee 
conveyancing fees 
Land Registry fee 
Stamp Duty Land Tax (in England and Northern Ireland), Land and Buildings Transaction Tax (in Scotland) or Land Transaction Tax (in Wales) 
mortgage arrangement fee 
buildings insurance 
removal costs 
What is a property survey? 
A property survey will look at the physical condition of your intended home. It’s not a legal requirement to have a survey, but it’s a good idea. If your home needs repairs after you’ve bought it, they may be expensive. Knowing about any issues beforehand could help you negotiate a lower price, or give you a reason not to buy the property. 
There are several types of surveys offering different levels of property inspection:
RICS Condition Report – the most basic type of survey 
RICS HomeBuyer Report – a more detailed inspection of the inside and outside of the property 
RICS Building Survey – the most comprehensive type of survey 
What is a mortgage valuation fee? 
Before agreeing to offer you a mortgage, your lender will typically arrange a valuation for mortgage purposes. This is an inspection of the property that will help them determine the maximum amount of money they’re willing to lend against it. 
You may need to cover the cost of this valuation. However, some providers may have no charge. It’s important to understand that a valuation for mortgage purposes is not the same as a property survey. It's prepared for your lender only – you won’t be able to rely on it.
Keep in mind, if you’re agreeing to pay above the value of the property, your mortgage lender may not agree to lend you the amount you need.

Explore: What is a mortgage valuation and how does it work?
What are conveyancing fees? 
When you buy a property, a solicitor or licensed conveyancer will charge for the related legal work. They’ll also pass on any costs they incur for property searches – these are enquiries made by your conveyancer to find out more about the property you want to buy. 
Explore: Conveyancing and property searches: what you need to know
What is a Land Registry fee? 
The Land Registry is a government department who register the ownership of land and property in England and Wales. They charge a fee when a property is registered to a new owner. Your solicitor or licensed conveyancer may deal with Land Registry directly, and the amount charged will depend on the property price.
What is Stamp Duty Land Tax? 
When you buy a property in the UK, you may need to pay tax. 
In England or Northern Ireland, this is called Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT). In Wales, it’s called Land Transaction Tax (LTT), and in Scotland it’s called Land and Buildings Transaction Tax (LBTT).
The amount of Stamp Duty you pay will vary, depending on a number of factors. For example, whether you’re a first-time buyer and the purchase price of the property. 
Explore: When do you have to pay Stamp Duty?
What is a mortgage arrangement fee? 
An arrangement fee is what you pay a lender to arrange and process your mortgage. It is sometimes known as a product fee or completion fee.
What is buildings insurance? 
Most mortgage lenders require you to have buildings insurance in place when you exchange contracts on a property. 
Buildings insurance protects you against the cost of repairing or rebuilding your home from scratch, should it get damaged, so it’s important to consider getting the cover you need. 
Explore: How much home insurance do you need?
What are removal costs? 
One of the final expenses associated with buying a new property is the cost of hiring a removal company. This is to transport your furniture and other belongings to your new home.
If you’re moving a considerable distance away from your current home, or have a lot of large furniture, this service may be expensive.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
10 steps to buying your own home 
Timeline for buying a home 
What insurance do you need with a mortgage?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/costs-of-buying-a-property/
########Top of main content 
What to look for when viewing a property 
From cracks in the wall to signs of damp, there are some things to look for when you’re viewing a home to buy. 
Buying a home is one of the biggest purchases you’ll ever make. So, you want to be sure you’re getting everything you need, with no nasty surprises. Here’s a quick checklist to help you.
The location 
When buying a property, it’s important to consider the location. You should feel safe, comfortable and happy with the area you’ll be living in. 
You can find out a lot about a place online, but it’s also worth having a walk or drive around the area, especially at different times of the day, to see what it’s like. 
Explore: How to choose a location when buying a property
The condition of the property and outdoor space 
One of the most important considerations is whether the building itself is structurally sound. You may want to have a professional survey done to get an accurate picture of the property’s condition. 
There are also a few superficial checks you can do yourself to get an idea. Start by asking yourself the following:
Does the outside of the building look solid and sturdy? 
Can you see any cracks, missing bricks, broken windows or warped or rotting wood? 
Is the inside of the building in an acceptable condition? 
Are all the fixtures and fittings, such as carpets, doors and built-in appliances, intact? 
Can you see or smell any signs of damp? 
Are there any windowless rooms? If so, do they include working extractors? 
Are the gardens and grounds well-maintained? 
Can you see any issues with the paving, flowerbeds, lawns, trees, gates, walls and fences or the driveways? 
The features of the property 
Some properties are ‘fixer-uppers’, meaning you can improve them and make them feel like your own. But if you find yourself thinking the property would only be fine if you made big structural changes, it may not be the one for you, unless you have the budget. 
You can ask yourself these questions to see whether the property will suit you:
Is it the right size and layout for you and your family? You may want to buy somewhere that offers room to grow. 
Are the fixtures and fittings in good condition and to your taste, or would you have to replace them? If so, how much would it cost? 
Would you need to do any work to the kitchen or bathroom? 
What Energy Performance Certificate (EPC) rating does the property have? This will show you how energy efficient the property is and will give you an idea of how much your energy bills will cost. 
What’s the parking like? Is there a driveway and, if not, can you park outside on the road or nearby? 
What direction does the house face? In the UK, south-facing walls and gardens receive more light than north-facing properties. 
Explore: The pros and cons of home renovations
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Can a low EPC rating affect your mortgage application? 
What to look for in a buy-to-let property 
How to make an offer on a property\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/buying-home-tips/
########Top of main content 
What is a landlord responsible for? 
Landlords have a range of duties and obligations at every stage of the tenancy. 
Broadly speaking, as a landlord, you are responsible for treating tenants fairly. The National Landlords Association (NLA) Code of Practice (CoP) says landlords should, ‘act in a fair, honest and reasonable way with all tenants at all times’. 
This involves:
complying with your legal obligations as a landlord around deposits and documentation 
ensuring your property is maintained properly 
A letting agent may be able to carry out some of these tasks for you. But as the landlord, you’re the person responsible for meeting your legal obligations. 
Registering as a landlord 
If you’re renting out a property in Scotland, Northern Ireland or Wales, you must register with the local council. In England, you need to check with your local council to see if you need to register in the area where your property is located. 
Finding a tenant 
As a landlord, you’ll need to find and vet tenants. For your own protection, it’s important to take references, and possibly do background and financial checks. For example, if you’re letting a property in England, you need to check your tenant has the legal right to rent in the UK. 
If you prefer, you can use a letting agent who can find and vet tenants on your behalf, for a fee. 
Dealing with deposits 
Once you’ve found a tenant, you must protect your tenant’s deposit in a government-approved deposit protection scheme within 30 days, or 28 days in Northern Ireland. There are separate schemes for England and Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland.
When a tenancy ends, you must return the deposit, provided your tenants:
have met the terms of your tenancy agreement 
haven’t damaged the property 
have paid their rent and bills 
The deposit must be returned within 10 days of the landlord and tenant agreeing how much will be returned.
Landlord document checklist 
Energy Performance Certificates (EPCs) 
An EPC measures how energy efficient a property is, from A (extremely efficient) to G (least efficient). You must show the EPC to the tenants before they rent the property. 
In England and Wales, all domestic rental properties need to have an EPC rating of ‘E’ and above. However, this is due to increase to C or above from 2025 – starting with new tenancies and then all tenancies from 2028.11 view footnote 1 
Explore: Why should you improve your home’s EPC rating?
How to rent: the checklist for renting in England 
In England, you need to give your tenants a copy of the government’s How to rent checklist How to rent checklist This link will open in a new window when they start renting from you. This guide helps tenants understand what their rights are, what responsibilities they have and what questions to ask. 
Tenancy agreement 
In Scotland, you must give the tenant a tenancy agreement. Tenants in Northern Ireland must be given a statement of tenancy terms and a rent book. In England and Wales, the tenancy agreement can be written or verbal. 
It’s important to remember that tenants and landlords have certain legal rights, regardless of what’s written in the tenancy agreement. 
Maintaining the property 
Your duties as a landlord can vary, depending on where in the UK the property is. As a landlord you’re obliged to:
keep your property safe, habitable, and secure 
make sure there are no health hazards, such as uneven stairs, damp or mould 
ensure gas and electricity are properly installed and that fire safety regulations are met 
test smoke alarms and carbon monoxide detectors to make sure they are working 
carry out repairs when necessary 
Landlord financial responsibilities 
As a landlord, you also have financial responsibilities. For example, you need to ensure tax obligations are met and paid, including income tax on your rental income. Always seek tax advice as tax rules can change, and will depend on individual circumstances. 
Your property may be repossessed if you don’t keep up repayments on your mortgage.
1GOV.UK: Minimum energy efficiency standard – landlord guidance Minimum energy efficiency standard – landlord guidance This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
What next? 
Buy-to-let mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to look for in a buy-to-let property 
How to make your home energy efficient 
The potential value of a home renovation\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/what-are-landlords-responsibilities/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage application documents 
Get your documentation together for your application 
As part of the mortgage application process, we'll ask you to provide some documents to support your application. You'll be able to find what you'll need here. 
Depending on your personal circumstances, you may also need some additional documents, but we'll let you know exactly what you'll need during your application.
How to submit your mortgage documents 
We'll send you a link by email to our secure document uploader. This will explain how to submit your documents to us.
Or, you can also take your documents to your local branch, or send them to us by post. Although, this may delay your mortgage application.
How to apply 
All applications 
Self-employed income 
Employed income 
Interest-only mortgages 
Foreign nationals 
Proof of name and address 
We may ask to see a full, valid, UK photocard driving licence, or one of the following:
proof of identity - Passport, driving licence or any National Identity Card (EEA and Swiss Nationals only)
proof of address - A non-HSBC bank statement or a utility bill dated within the last four months
Bank statements 
In most cases we won’t need to see your bank statements. If we do, we’ll let you know directly.
We may have to ask to see your latest month’s bank statements for:
non-HSBC current accounts
international HSBC accounts
Jersey and expat HSBC accounts
If you make less frequent, regular payments, such as term school fees, we may ask to see your bank statements over a longer period.
Evidence of deposit 
We may need to see evidence of any deposit you're planning to make towards the property. You'll be notified about this depending on your circumstances.
Where your deposit is being gifted by a family member, your Solicitor will need to obtain a letter from the donor confirming the deposit is a non-refundable and unconditional gift and that no interest is being claimed in the property.
Self-employed 
How we assess your application
We assess self-employed applications responsibly. To do this, we take into account any future government-backed loan liabilities, such as:
Bounce Back Loans (BBLs)
Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan Scheme (CBILS)
Our underwriters will deduct any government-backed loan liabilities from the latest year’s net profit figure. This will give an adjusted net profit position, as these will be ongoing costs for the business.
We will accept self-employed incomes which include government Self-Employed Income Support Scheme (SEISS) grant income.
Depending on your circumstances, we'll need to see the following documents: 
Self-employment type Documents required 
Sole Trader, General Partnership or Limited Liability Partnerships with fewer than 200 partners	
The underwriter may need further information - for example, business bank statements or more HMRC documents. 

1. Your last 2 years’ worth of the following documents (the most recent year must be dated within the last 18 months): 

a) Tax year overviews

b) Tax calculations, evidenced by one of the following:
a print out from HMRC website
an SA302
the computation produced by your accountant that is submitted to HMRC
	
Limited Liability Partnership (LLPs) with 200 or more partner
	
A letter from the company finance director or accountant detailing your earnings over the past 2 years, dated within the last 3 months.
	
Limited company director with 25% or more shareholding
	

1. Your last 2 years' finalised accounts (the most recent year must be dated within the last 18 months). 

2. If there are multiple directors within the business, and the financial accounts don't confirm the distribution of salary to each director, we’ll need either of the following:
the last 2 years' P60s
the last 2 years SA302 tax calculations and your corresponding tax year overview



Note: The underwriter may need further information - for example, business bank statements.
	
Limited company director with less than 25% shareholding	We'll consider you to be employed - please go to the 'Employed Income' section.
	
Self-employed customers trading for less than 2 years	
1. We'll need either of the following, dated within the past 18 months:
a minimum of 1 year's finalised financial accounts (limited companies)
1 year's tax calculations and tax year overviews (sole trader or partnership)

2. We'll also need your latest 3 months' business bank statements. The latest date showing on the statement must be within 35 days of the application start date. 
	
Depending on your circumstances, we'll need to see the following documents: 
Self-employment type Sole Trader, General Partnership or Limited Liability Partnerships with fewer than 200 partners	
Documents required 
The underwriter may need further information - for example, business bank statements or more HMRC documents. 

1. Your last 2 years’ worth of the following documents (the most recent year must be dated within the last 18 months): 

a) Tax year overviews

b) Tax calculations, evidenced by one of the following:
a print out from HMRC website
an SA302
the computation produced by your accountant that is submitted to HMRC
	
	
Self-employment type Limited Liability Partnership (LLPs) with 200 or more partner
	
Documents required 
A letter from the company finance director or accountant detailing your earnings over the past 2 years, dated within the last 3 months.
	
	
Self-employment type Limited company director with 25% or more shareholding
	
Documents required 

1. Your last 2 years' finalised accounts (the most recent year must be dated within the last 18 months). 

2. If there are multiple directors within the business, and the financial accounts don't confirm the distribution of salary to each director, we’ll need either of the following:
the last 2 years' P60s
the last 2 years SA302 tax calculations and your corresponding tax year overview



Note: The underwriter may need further information - for example, business bank statements.
	
	
Self-employ\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/guidance/application-documents/
########Top of main content 
Purchasing a buy-to-let property: things to consider 
A buy-to-let (BTL) property is one that you purchase to rent out to tenants. It can be an attractive way to use your money and provide some extra income. But is it right for you? 
Here are some important questions to consider, to help you decide. 
Are you eligible for a buy-to-let mortgage? 
If you’re unable to buy the property outright, you’ll need to apply for a mortgage. 
Lenders have their own criteria when it comes to buy-to-let mortgages. For example, to be eligible for a buy-to-let mortgage with HSBC: 
you need to have a minimum annual salary of £25,000 
you must have owned and lived in your existing property for at least 6 months 
the property must be in the UK 
Additional criteria apply. 
Have you saved enough for a deposit? 
Deposits for buy-to-let properties are higher than they are for residential properties. 
While most mortgage lenders require a deposit of at least 25% of the property purchase price, some lenders require as much as 40%. 
Explore: How to save for a home deposit
Can you afford a buy-to-let mortgage over the long term? 
Many buy-to-let mortgages are taken out on an interest-only basis.
This means your monthly payment only covers the interest charged on your loan, so the amount you owe doesn’t reduce over time.
Rental income may help cover your monthly mortgage payments, however, you’ll need to be able to repay your mortgage at the end of the mortgage term. 
Alternatively, you may decide to take out a buy-to-let mortgage on a capital repayment basis.
With this option, your monthly payments cover the interest charged on your loan each month, as well as a repayment of some of the capital. This means that your mortgage will be fully paid off at the end of the mortgage term if you keep up with the monthly payments. 
Explore: Types of mortgages and repayment options
Keep in mind 
Interest rates and mortgage fees tend to be higher for buy-to-let mortgages than for residential mortgages.
You’ll also need to continue to make your monthly payments during ‘voids’. Voids are periods when the property is empty because you can’t find a tenant, or you need to carry out maintenance. 
Mortgage lenders will take these factors into account when deciding whether to lend to you. 
Can you afford the costs of a buy-to-let property? 
There are other costs to consider when buying a property to let, such as: 
conveyancing fees, survey fees and Stamp Duty 
renovation costs to make the property safe and secure before you let 
letting agent fees 
landlord insurance to help protect you and your investment 
ongoing maintenance and repair costs 
Do you understand your responsibilities as a landlord? 
As a landlord, you will have legal obligations and a duty of care to your tenants, so it’s really important to understand these before investing in property.
Have you researched the rental market? 
It’s important to research the rental market in the area you want to buy in. It can give you an idea of local demand, who your tenants might be, and how much you could receive in rent – and therefore the potential yield on your investment.
Understanding the market can help you when it comes to finding tenants and managing your income. There may be times when your property is empty. So, you need to make sure you can manage without this income during these times.
If your property increases in value, you may be able to sell the property for more than you paid for it. However, property prices can fall as well as rise, meaning it could also drop in value.
Do you understand the tax implications of owning a rental property? 
You’ll need to pay tax on income you earn from your investment property, and on any profit you make when you sell your rental property. However, you may be eligible for certain tax reliefs. 
Always seek tax advice as tax rules can change and will depend on individual circumstances. 
Your property may be repossessed if you don’t keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Buy-to-let mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to look for in a buy-to-let property 
What is a landlord responsible for? 
Improving your property’s EPC rating\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/purchasing-a-buy-to-let-property/
########Top of main content 
Getting a mortgage when self-employed 
Working for yourself shouldn’t be an obstacle to buying a home, and lots of people get a mortgage when self-employed. 
Here, we answer some common questions about the process.
What do lenders count as self-employed? 
If you own more than 20% to 25% of a business, from which you earn your main income, generally lenders will view you as being self-employed. 
You might be a:
sole trader 
partner 
company director 
contractor who has set up a limited company 
To apply for a mortgage, most lenders ask for at least 2 years’ worth of accounts. This provides evidence of your income to make sure you can afford the repayments.
If you’ve recently become self-employed, you may need time to gather this information before you apply.
Can you get a joint mortgage when one of you is self-employed? 
Yes, you can still apply for a joint mortgage through the standard mortgage application process.
What matters is whether you can jointly afford the mortgage repayments for the length of the mortgage term. As with all joint loans, both parties are responsible for the repayments.
Employed applicants are typically asked to provide 1 months’ worth of payslips and bank statements as proof of income. However, if one of you is self-employed, you’ll be asked to provide additional documents as evidence.
What documents do the self-employed need for a mortgage? 
If you’re self-employed, your lender will ask you to provide some documents to support your application. These can vary, depending on your personal circumstances and how you trade.
For HSBC mortgages, you can find what self-employed documents you'll need here.
For a sole trader or partnership, these typically include:
your last 2 years’ worth of tax year overviews dated within the last 18 months 
your last 2 years’ worth of tax calculations (from HMRC) or an SA302 form dated within the last 18 months 
For a limited company, these typically include:
your last 2 years finalised financial accounts dated within the last 18 months 
As well as providing evidence of your income, additional mortgage application documents include proof of name and address, and evidence of a home deposit. These apply to all applicants.
How to increase your chances of getting the mortgage you want 
There are a number of things you can do to help you get a mortgage, such as:
save up for a larger home deposit 
check and correct any mistakes on your credit report 
improve your credit score 
get on top of your finances before you apply 
reduce any existing debt 
have evidence of your self-employed income 
Keep in mind – it’s important that you apply for a mortgage you can afford, even if your circumstances were to change. 
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a Decision in Principle? 
How much could you borrow? 
What types of mortgages are there?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/getting-a-mortgage-when-self-employed/
########Top of main content 
What's the difference between freehold and leasehold properties? 
Owning a freehold means you own the property and the land. Owning a leasehold means you own the property but not the land. 
When you own a freehold property, you're responsible for the property and the land, with a high degree of control over it. This includes settling any disagreements with neighbours.
Owning a leasehold means you’re a tenant and whoever owns the freehold is your landlord or landlady. You’ll be required to pay them rent and may need to refer disputes with noisy neighbours or issues concerning the public spaces and repairs to the freeholder.
Depending on the terms of your lease, you may be obliged to pay:
Maintenance fees 
Service charges 
Your share of the buildings insurance, on top of the rent 
It’s more common for leasehold properties to be flats, and your property may share certain common areas and responsibilities.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
How long does a lease last for on a leasehold? 
Lease terms vary but are commonly for more than 90 years and can go up to 999 years. The remaining term of the lease can affect the value of the property and its suitability as a security for a mortgage.
While it may be possible to extend a lease or to make changes to its terms, this can be expensive and time-consuming.
Can you buy the freehold of your property? 
It’s possible to buy the freehold of your property, but it can be a complicated process – it’s worth seeking legal advice.
Precautions to take 
Whether you buy freehold or leasehold, it’s always advisable to get your solicitor or licensed conveyancer to look at the legal title, including the terms of any lease before you jump in.
Details of most properties in England and Wales are available through the HM Land Registry and in Scotland, through the Registers of Scotland.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
What is conveyancing? 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to look for when viewing a property 
What are the government’s affordable housing schemes? 
How much could you borrow?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/difference-between-freehold-and-leasehold/
########Top of main content 
What you need to apply for a mortgage 
Having the right documents ready during the mortgage application process can help make things run smoothly. 
Before you apply for a mortgage, see what supporting documentation you might be asked for.
Proof of name and address 
The most common types of accepted ID are a full, valid, UK photocard driving licence or your passport. You can also provide an EEA/Swiss National Identity Card. 
You may also need to provide one or more forms of proof of your current address, such as a recent utility bill, or your tenancy agreement.
Bank statements 
You may need to supply bank statements so the mortgage lender can check things like: 
your monthly income 
how much you put aside in savings each month 
living expenses, including childcare and travel costs 
regular subscriptions and insurance policies 
debt repayments on existing credit cards or loans 
utility bills 
Evidence of a mortgage deposit 
Your mortgage lender will need to see evidence of any deposit you're planning to put towards the cost of the property.
If the funds are a gift from a family member, your solicitor or licensed conveyancer will need to organise a letter that's signed by the donor.
This will need to confirm the deposit is a non-refundable and unconditional gift. It will also need to say that no interest is being claimed on the property.
Explore: How to save for a home deposit
Source of income if employed 
If you’re employed, your lender will want to see your latest payslip and may ask to see several months’ worth, even if you’re paid weekly or fortnightly. 
If you earn bonuses, commission or overtime, you’ll need to provide a combination of your latest payslips and P60s. The number and combination of these depends on how often you’re paid.
Source of income if self-employed 
If you’re self-employed, the documents required will depend on your circumstances. For example, you may need to provide:
tax calculations and tax year overviews for the last 2 or more years 
evidence of earnings from the last 2 or more years 
certified accounts from the last 2 or more years 
Upload your documents online 
Some lenders let you upload your documents online, saving you the effort of finding and printing lots of different statements. 
If you apply for an HSBC mortgage, we'll send you a link to our secure document uploader so you can provide your documents to us electronically. It saves you time and helps us make a faster decision.
Applying for an interest-only mortgage 
For interest-only mortgages, you're responsible for making arrangements to repay the capital by the end of the mortgage term. So, you need to provide evidence that you’ll be able to do so.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Mortgage application document checklist 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a Decision in Principle? 
Ways to help you get a mortgage 
Getting a mortgage when self-employed\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/what-you-need-mortgages-application/
########Top of main content 
What to do now the Help to Buy ISA scheme has ended 
On 30 November 2019, the government’s Help to Buy ISA scheme was closed to new applications. 
If you opened a Help to Buy ISA before this end date, you can still continue to use it. If you haven’t, there are other ways you can grow your deposit for a home.
Use this guide to find out more about the changes to the Help to Buy ISA, and other saving options available.
What is a Help to Buy ISA? 
A Help to Buy ISA is a type of Individual Savings Account (ISA) used to help first-time buyers save for a deposit for a home. The government-backed saving initiative was first brought in on 1 December 2015 and has been used by a number of first-time buyers all across the UK. The government then closed the scheme to new applicants on 30 November 2019.
When saving into this type of ISA, you’re able to claim a 25% bonus from the UK government on your savings. The bonus is capped at £3,000 and you’re able to save up to £200 a month.
If you opened a Help to Buy ISA before 30 November 2019, you can still continue to use the account to save for a deposit. You’re able to save into it until 30 November 2029, and claim the government bonus until November 2030.
What are the alternatives to a Help to Buy ISA? 
If you weren’t able to open a Help to Buy ISA before the deadline, there are other savings options available, including different types of ISAs and savings accounts. Finding the right one for your needs as a first-time buyer is key. 
ISAs are a tax-efficient way to save, so you may still be able to open one and use it as a way to save for your home deposit. There are different ISAs which may be useful, including:
cash ISA 
lifetime ISA 
stocks and shares ISA 
It’s worth noting, HSBC do not currently offer lifetime ISAs.
What happens if you already have a Help to Buy ISA? 
If you opened a Help to Buy ISA before the deadline, you’ll still be able to use this as a way to save money.
Can you transfer your Help to Buy ISA after 30 November? 
After 30 November 2019, you should still be able to transfer your Help to Buy ISA to a bank, building society or credit union if you opened it before the deadline. 
You’ll need to check the provider offers a Help to Buy ISA first, and you’ll need to ensure they accept transfers. 
Do not withdraw the money yourself – speak to your bank or financial provider first to understand the steps you need to take in order to transfer your ISA.
Find out more about transferring into an HSBC Help to Buy ISA.
Can you take your money out of the Help to Buy ISA if you’re not buying a home? 
You can take your money out of your Help to Buy ISA if you’re not looking to buy a property anymore. However, you won't be entitled to the bonus the government pays. 
How do you close a Help to Buy ISA and receive your bonus from the government? 
When you find a property you’d like to purchase, you’ll need to contact your bank so they can close your account. Do not withdraw the money yourself. If you do take the money out, you may not be eligible to receive the government bonus. 
When you’ve closed your account, you’ll have 12 months to claim your government bonus. The bonus can’t be used to pay for your solicitor/conveyancer fees, or any other indirect costs involved in buying a property. 
When you close your Help to Buy ISA with HSBC, we’ll send you a statement and a closing letter within 5 days. To receive the government bonus, you’ll need to share these letters with your solicitor or licensed conveyancer along with your first-time buyer declaration. They’ll then be able to claim the bonus for you.
The government bonus is paid for the mortgage deposit only, and you’ll need to have saved £1,600 into your Help to Buy ISA, as the minimum government bonus is £400.
Can you reopen your account if the property sale doesn’t go through? 
If your property purchase doesn’t go through, you should be able to reopen your Help to Buy ISA account and continue to save in it. 
To reopen a HSBC Help to Buy ISA, you’ll need to provide us with a Purchase Failure Notice (PFN) and reopen the account within 12 months of its closure. The date of closure can be found on your closing statement. You’ll then be able to continue saving into your Help to Buy ISA until 30 November 2029 and claim the government bonus until November 2030.
What next? 
Whether you’re continuing to save into a Help to Buy ISA, or you’re considering an alternative option, looking at ways you can build your savings can be useful.
Back to top 
Next steps 
How to save money 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to save for a home deposit 
How to make an offer on a home 
ISAs vs savings accounts: What's the difference?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/help-to-buy-isas-what-to-do-now/
########Top of main content 
Should you rent or buy a home? 
If you’re looking for a new home, you may ask yourself whether it’s best to rent or buy. 
Here, we explain some of the potential benefits and disadvantages of each option.
Benefits of renting a home 
Renting a home gives you lots of flexibility. As a tenant, you’ll usually have a fixed-term contract that sets out the length of your tenancy and the terms and conditions that apply to it. 
Once the term is over, you may want to enter a new fixed-term contract (if your landlord is happy to do so) or move home. This means, if you don’t like your rented home, you can move and find a new one. And if you do like it, you can stay. 
Moving is easier when you rent, as there’s no need to find a buyer or use a conveyancer. You can tell your landlord you’re moving out (giving the right period of notice) and leave it up to them to find a new tenant.
Another benefit of renting is that, if something big goes wrong with the property (such as a burst pipe or a broken boiler), you typically won’t have to pay to fix it. These bigger, more expensive repairs are usually the landlord’s responsibility.
Benefits of owning a home 
If you have a repayment mortgage, the money you pay each month for your mortgage brings you closer to owning the property outright, which can give you more financial freedom. 
Over time, you build up home equity. Let’s say your house is valued at £250,000 and you have £150,000 left on your mortgage. Your equity is £100,000.
You may also be able to sell the property for a profit. However, it could sell for less than you bought it for.
If you own a property, you have much more freedom to alter it than you do when renting. You may need planning permission or building regulation consent to make big changes. But you can paint the walls, hang up pictures and fit a new bathroom or kitchen without having to get anyone’s permission.
Disadvantages of renting a home 
Your landlord will have the final say on any changes you want to make to the property, which means you may not be able to do things, like put up shelves and pictures without permission. 
You may also be subject to rent increases and your landlord can choose to sell the property. 
Finally, the money you spend on rent goes to the landlord, rather than towards your own home ownership. 
Disadvantages of buying a property 
Buying a home means putting down a deposit, so you’ll need money available for this.
The minimum is 5% of the property value but, if you can afford more, you could have a smaller mortgage which would mean paying less interest. There are lots of extra costs associated with buying a property too. You’ll need money to cover things such as conveyancing fees, mortgage valuation fees, Stamp Duty (if payable) as well as home insurance. You may also need to extend the lease if you buy a leasehold property.
If you buy a certain type of property, such as an apartment, you’ll also need to pay monthly ground rent and service charges. This is to cover the general upkeep of the whole building.
If you take out a mortgage, you need to make sure you can afford the repayments. If you don’t make the repayments each month, your home may be repossessed. 
There’s no guarantee that the value of your property will go up, which means that when it comes time to sell, you may not get the amount you want.
While there’s no certainty when you buy a property, doing as much research as possible will help you make the best decision.
Back to top 
What next? 
Buying a property: How much could you afford? 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
10 steps to buying your own home 
How to save for a home deposit 
Timeline for buying a home\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/should-you-rent-or-buy-home/
########Top of main content 
Buying a property: How much could you afford? 
Buying a property is a big financial commitment. You need to be able to meet the mortgage repayments and other costs involved in owning a property. 
Before starting the mortgage application process, review your finances to make sure there are no red flags that might put lenders off.
Check your credit score to make sure there are no errors. You should also be familiar with your bank statements and prepared to explain transactions which your lender may not understand.
Explore: How to improve your credit score
Work out your income and outgoings 
To give you a basic idea of what you can afford, work out how much money you have coming in and going out. 
The best way to do this is to look at your income for the last three months and compare it to your spending over the same time. 
This will give you an idea of how much you may be able to afford to save for a home deposit each month. It will also show how much you may be able to afford in mortgage repayments.
Explore: How to create a budget
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Work out how much home deposit you can afford 
To get a mortgage, you’ll typically need to contribute at least 5% of the price of the property as a deposit.
A larger deposit may give you access to cheaper mortgage deals and make your monthly repayments more manageable.
Look at how much you’re able to save each month, and how long you want to save for. Your budget and timeline will give you a rough idea of when you’ll be able to afford the kind of property you want.
Consider household bills as a homeowner 
Your mortgage repayments will probably be your single biggest expense once you buy a home, but you’ll need to budget for other outgoings too. These may include:
utility bills 
repairs 
Council Tax 
broadband 
home insurance 
You should also set aside an emergency fund of at least 3 months’ worth of living expenses, to cover things like a burst pipe or faulty oven.
Understand what lenders look for 
When you apply for a mortgage, you will go through an affordability assessment. Lenders have strict mortgage affordability criteria. For example, they will:
look at your income (you may have to provide payslips and P60 forms) 
look at your expenses 
check your credit history to determine how reliable you are at borrowing and repaying money 
This affordability assessment is carried out so you only borrow what you can comfortably afford. 
Do a rough calculation 
Use our calculator for an estimate of how much you could borrow, based on your income.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What are the costs involved in buying a property? 
What is a Decision in Principle? 
Ways to help you get a mortgage\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/how-much-mortgage-could-you-afford/
########Top of main content 
What to look for in a buy-to-let property 
From location and condition to the potential rental yield, there are many things to consider when purchasing a buy-to-let property. 
Here are some of the key things you’ll want to think about before beginning your search.
What type of return do you want from your property? 
You can potentially earn a profit from a buy-to-let property in two ways:
Rental yield 
Rental yield is the return you expect to make on your property, through rental income. 
To calculate rental yield, take the rental income you expect to make in a year and divide it by the purchase price. Then convert the result to a percentage by multiplying it by 100. 
For example, if the property costs £250,000 and the predicted rental income is £12,000 a year, the rental yield will be 4.8%. 
For a more accurate picture of return on investment, you may want to take into account other outgoings, such as letting agency fees, insurance and maintenance costs. 
What makes a good rental yield? This can vary depending on location. Local estate agents and property websites can offer guidance on what rental income you might expect. 
Capital growth 
Capital growth is how much the property may go up in value by the time you come to sell it.
Ideally, you’d want both a good rental yield and capital growth when considering a buy-to-let property. You can research areas where this is most likely to happen. 
Bear in mind, you’ll be selling a property that’s not your home, so there will be capital gains tax to pay. You may also have to pay tax on the rental income you receive. Always seek tax advice, as tax rules change and will depend on individual circumstances.
Who is your target tenant? 
One approach to buying rental property is to have an idea of who your target tenant is, and focus your property search on them. For example, are you looking to rent to students, professionals, families or retirees? 
Once you know, put yourself in the shoes of your target tenant and ask what you would look for in a rental property.
A good tenant will look after your property, pay their rent and bills on time and treat neighbours with respect. Whoever your target tenant is, it’s important to carry out the necessary reference checks. 
A letting agency can find and vet tenants for you, for a fee. They can also collect rent or fully manage the tenancy. Fees will depend on the level of service offered and is often a percentage of the total rent. 
What makes an attractive location? 
A promising buy-to-let location is one where people would like to live, not necessarily the cheapest or most expensive area.
To select the right area, consider a number of factors, such as:
the local crime rate 
job prospects 
proximity to shops, cafes, parks and leisure facilities 
transport links 
quality of local schools and hospitals 
Also consider where the property is, in relation to you, as its owner. Many investors choose properties close to where they live, allowing them to use their knowledge of the local market and keep an eye on their asset. 
If you choose to employ a property management company, rather than be a hands-on landlord, you could potentially look further afield.
Are you willing to renovate? 
Some properties will be suitable for let, relatively quickly, once they’re safe and secure for tenants. Other properties may need fixing up and renovating first.
This can affect your profit margins, and the time it takes before you start receiving a rental income, which you’ll need to consider.
Before you buy a property, you should arrange an independent survey to flag up any potential issues. You can choose the type of survey you’d like, depending on how much detail you need:
RICS Condition Report – the most basic type of survey 
RICS HomeBuyer Report – a more detailed survey of the inside and outside of the property 
RICS Building Survey – the most comprehensive type of survey 
Explore: The potential value of a home renovation
Will you get a consistent rental income? 
If you have a mortgage to pay on your buy-to-let property, you want to avoid extended periods of no rental income. It’s important to consider demand for renting the property and its location, as well as the quality of your letting agent, if you use one. 
To help you manage your money, you can set a minimum term on the tenancy, such as 12 months. You can also add a reasonable notice period for terminating the tenancy agreement, to give you time to find a new occupant if you need to.
Your property may be repossessed if you don’t keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top 
What next? 
Buy-to-let mortgages 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a landlord responsible for? 
Purchasing a buy-to-let property: things to consider 
Improving your property’s EPC rating\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/what-to-look-for-in-a-buy-to-let-property/
########Top of main content 
What is insurance excess? 
Insurance excess is the amount you have to pay towards the overall cost of an insurance claim. 
It’s usually a pre-agreed amount. Your insurer will then contribute the rest – up to the limit of the cover. You’ll see insurance excess on insurance products like travel, motor, home and health.
If you’ve pranged your car or broken your phone, you may know all about insurance excess. But if you’ve never made a claim, you might not have given it much thought.
For example, did you know that increasing your excess could save you money? Here, we explain how it works and things to consider. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
Insurance explained 
Insurance can provide financial cover if the unexpected happens and things go wrong. This may include theft, loss, injury or accidental damage. 
Some types of insurance are optional – such as life insurance – but others are required by law. For example, you’ll need basic car insurance to legally drive a car in the UK. 
Find out more about how much life insurance you need and what insurance you need with your mortgage.
What you can claim, and the amount, depends on the type of insurance you have and what’s in your insurance policy.
How does insurance excess work? 
If you want to claim £1,000 on your car insurance, to cover the cost of accidental damage, you’ll be expected to pay the excess, let’s say £250. The insurer will then contribute £750, if agreed in your policy.
You usually have to pay every time you make a claim, but not always. For example, if you were in a car accident that wasn’t your fault, you wouldn’t be expected to pay – or your excess would be refunded.
Some insurers may have different excess amounts under a single policy. For example, a home insurance policy may have a £100 excess for accidental damage but a £1,000 excess for claims that are likely to be more expensive, such as subsidence.
Find out more about why home insurance is important and how to compare home insurance policies.
Your policy should clearly tell you what excess you’ll need to pay and when – if you ever need to make a claim.
What is compulsory and voluntary excess? 
There are two types of excess:
compulsory excess (the amount set by the insurer) 
voluntary excess (the amount you can choose to pay) 
What is compulsory excess? 
This is the amount you have to pay towards an insurance claim. It’s set by the insurer when you take out the policy and can’t be changed. Compulsory excess can vary across policies – from zero to over £1,000.
It can be particularly high for certain types of insurance. For example, young drivers have a higher excess on their insurance, as they’re considered higher risk than experienced drivers.
What is voluntary excess? 
With many types of policy, such as car insurance, you can choose how much excess you’re willing to pay, within a given range. 
This is an optional amount you can pay towards an insurance claim – on top of the compulsory excess. For example, if your policy has a compulsory excess of £150 and you add a voluntary excess of £100, you’ll need to pay £250 if you make a claim.
Can raising your excess save you money? 
Increasing the voluntary excess on your insurance can be financially worthwhile in some cases. But you need to weigh up the pros and cons, to help you decide if it’s the right option for you.
Adding a voluntary excess can lower the cost of your insurance premium – the amount of money you pay for an insurance policy. This is because the insurer won’t have to pay out as much in the event of a claim. 
Paying a lower premium means that you can save money on your insurance cover. 
However, you should consider your total insurance excess and make sure it’s at a level you feel comfortable paying, in case you ever need to make a claim. Don’t raise your voluntary excess beyond what you could afford to pay towards a claim.
Things to consider before raising your excess: 
you need to be able to cover the cost of the excess in the event of making a claim 
some policies can increase the excess over time 
Bear in mind – you may not have to pay the excess upfront when making a claim – it can sometimes be deducted from the money the insurer hands over. But you’ll still need the money available, to make up the shortfall.
Before you buy any insurance product, it’s important to read the policy and understand the details, including costs – to make sure you get the cover you need.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to make an insurance claim 
What is home emergency cover? 
What to consider when buying insurance\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/what-is-insurance-excess/
########Top of main content 
How to get your first credit card 
If you haven't had a credit card before, knowing how to get one can be tricky. 
To help you get started, we explain what you need to know and things to consider when choosing your first credit card. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Should you get a credit card? 
When deciding if a credit card is right for you, it’s important to understand how credit cards work. You may want to think about your spending habits and how you’ll use it. 
It can be tempting to overspend on a credit card, but remember – anything you spend must be paid back. 
You may be charged interest on purchases if you don’t repay the balance in full each month. If you use a credit card in other ways, such as withdrawing cash, you’re likely to have to pay interest even if your monthly balance is repaid.
If used sensibly, a credit card can:
You may be charged interest on purchases if you don’t repay the balance in full each month. If you use a credit card in other ways, such as withdrawing cash, you’re likely to have to pay interest even if your monthly balance is repaid. 
help you manage your spending between pay days 
help you spread the cost of expensive purchases 
be a useful tool for building your credit history 
protect the things you buy under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
Explore: Tips for using a credit card
How to choose your first credit card 
When you apply for a credit card, a lender will look at your credit score to see how responsible you are at borrowing and repaying money. They’ll use this to help them decide whether to accept your application.
If you’re new to borrowing, you may not have a credit score. Without a credit history, you may be limited in your choice of credit cards but you can still find ones to suit your needs.
Credit builder credit cards 
A credit builder credit card can be a good option for your first credit card if you’re looking to build up, or improve your credit score. 
Credit builder credit cards tend to have higher interest rates than other types of credit cards. You can avoid paying interest on purchases by repaying your credit card balance in full, each month. 
By spending within your credit limit and meeting your monthly repayments, you can gradually improve your credit score. Failure to do so can have the opposite effect and harm your credit score. 
Other types of credit cards 
If you have a good credit score, you may consider a different type of card. The right type of credit card for you will depend on how you’d like to use it. For example:
reward credit cards allow you to earn reward points as you spend, which can be redeemed for things like shopping vouchers or frequent flyer miles 
Explore: What is a reward credit card? 
0% purchase credit cards are useful if you plan to buy an expensive item upfront and spread the cost over a period of time 
Explore: What is a 0% credit card for? 
balance transfer credit cards let you move existing debt from one or more credit cards to another credit card provider 
Explore: What is a balance transfer? 
Explore: Types of credit cards
What to look for when comparing credit cards 
Lenders must display certain credit card terms, before you take out a credit card. It’s important to check these details and understand what they mean. Things to consider include:
Interest rate 
On most cards, you can avoid paying interest on purchases if you repay the balance in full each month. Some credit cards offer a 0% interest rate on certain types of transactions for a set period.
Explore: What is a credit card interest-free period?
Annual Percentage Rate (APR) 
The APR can give you an idea of how much a credit card could potentially cost you over a year. It takes into account interest rates for purchases as well as fees or charges you may have to pay.
Credit limit 
The credit limit on a credit card is the maximum amount you can borrow at any one time. It is set by the lender, based on how much they feel you can afford to borrow.
Minimum credit card repayment 
This is the smallest amount you must pay back each month to avoid late fees and charges.
Credit card fees and charges 
Some credit cards charge an annual fee. You could also be charged a fee if you go over your credit limit, or make a late payment. This could harm your chances of getting credit in the future.
Explore: How to avoid credit card charges
How to apply for your first credit card 
Eligibility requirements can vary, depending on the type of credit card you want to apply for. 
To apply for a credit card, you need to be over 18 and a UK resident. You may also need to have a regular income, over a certain amount.
Once you’ve decided on the right credit card for you, it’s important to check the terms and conditions and eligibility criteria. If your application is declined, it can harm your credit score. 
Most credit card providers allow you to apply online or through a mobile banking app. 
Credit is subject to status. Eligibility criteria apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
How to apply for a credit card 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How do credit cards work? 
How to avoid credit card charges 
Should you get a student credit card?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/how-to-get-your-first-credit-card/
########Top of main content 
Switching current accounts - what you need to do 
Ready to switch bank accounts? Here's how you can switch using the Current Account Switch Guarantee. 
What is the Current Account Switch Guarantee? 
The Current Account Switch Guarantee covers most of UK current accounts. It should take only 7 working days to switch your current account, once your new account is open. Payments, such as Direct Debits and standing orders, and any regular payments made to, or requested from your old account, will automatically be transferred and redirected to your new account.
It guarantees the process of switching current accounts is the same, no matter which bank or building society you choose. Plus, you'll be refunded any charges or interest incurred if something goes wrong. 
If you have a joint current account, you'll need permission from any other account holders before you switch.
Explore: Benefits of switching current accounts
How to switch your current account using the Current Account Switch Guarantee 
Check eligibility 
If you want an overdraft, apply first 
Tidy up your existing account 
Choose your bank account switch date 
Start the switching process 
Start using your new current account 
1. Check eligibility 
Start by checking you meet the eligibility criteria for the current account you're interested in. This may vary from bank to bank. For example, you may need to pay in a minimum amount of money each month.
2. If you want an overdraft, apply first 
If you want an arranged overdraft with your new current account, you'll need to be approved by your new bank before you make your switch.
3. Tidy up your existing account 
Bank statements may come in handy for identification and for some loan applications, so it can be useful to get some copies from your current bank before you switch.
It's also worth checking your Direct Debits and standing orders to make sure they're still needed. You can cancel any you no longer want to make.
4. Choose your bank switch date 
Switching current accounts takes 7 working days and you can choose the date you'd like the switch to be made.
5. Start the switching process 
Tell your bank or building society you want to switch using the Current Account Switch Guarantee. They'll take care of everything from there and make sure the following are switched to your new account:
balance 
incoming payments (such as your salary) 
outgoing payments (such as Direct Debits, standing orders and bill payments) 
You can use your old account as usual, but don't set up any new Direct Debits or standing orders from your old account.
6. Start using your new current account 
Your old account will be closed and your new one ready to use on your switch date. From this point, you can use your new account as normal.
What if you don't want to close your old bank account? 
You can make what's called a partial switch to a new current account, but this isn't covered by the Current Account Switch Guarantee. It also takes longer than 7 working days. You'll need to arrange for credit payments to be transferred into your new account.
Keep in mind - if you do a partial switch, you may not get some of the incentives that are being offered by your new bank.
Back to top 
What next? 
Explore HSBC current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Banking terms you need to know 
Benefits of switching current accounts 
Opening a current account - what you need\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/switching-current-accounts/
########Top of main content 
Benefits of switching current accounts 
Gone are the days when changing banks was difficult. 
And yet new research on behalf of HSBC reveals most people in the UK rarely think about switching bank accounts (67%), even though many never use the benefits offered by their existing provider.
Over half of Brits (54%) have had the same current account for over a decade, with more than 2 in 5 sticking with the same one for over 15 years (41%). 
This is despite the majority (64%) of people in the UK saying they don’t receive any benefits on their existing current account. 
For those that do, the most common benefits are ongoing rewards, such as discounts (31%), cashback on expenditure or bills (31%), and interest on their current account balance (28%). Yet fewer than 1 in 5 (19%) people say they use their benefits regularly. More than a quarter (the largest group at 27%) of Brits say they never use them at all.
Not all bank accounts are the same – many offer a variety of benefits, and it can be worthwhile to shop around. Choosing the right one depends on your circumstances and the features you want. 
If you’re not satisfied with your current bank, here are some of the benefits of switching:
rewards and perks 
access to better savings rates 
reduced overdraft costs 
better support and customer service 
7 working day Current Account Switch Guarantee 
no harm to your credit rating 
Rewards and perks 
Some banks will give you a one-off cash bonus for switching. You might also be offered access to discounts and offers.
Other current account switch incentives may include:
hotel discounts 
gift vouchers 
travel cards 
While incentives such as these are attractive, it’s important the account you're switching to meets your personal financial needs over the long term, so you don’t end up losing out.
Find the right current account for you 
Compare our current accounts to see which one may suit you. 
Access to better savings rates 
Some current accounts give you access to regular savings accounts that offer attractive rates of interest. Double check the finer details – there’s usually a limit on the minimum and maximum amounts you can put away in savings each month. This may impact whether or not an account suits you. There may also be limits on how you access the money. So look into the terms and conditions to make sure they suit you.
Explore: How to save money
Reduced overdraft costs 
If you use your overdraft facility often, you may be able to get a better deal by switching. Look at the rate of interest charged on an arranged overdraft, and if there's an amount you can borrow interest-free.
Paying less interest each month if you go overdrawn could help you clear your debts sooner and get back in control.
Explore: How to get out of your overdraft
Better support and customer service 
Does your current bank offer helpful tools and apps, secure online banking and phone support? Is there a local branch you can pop into?
Some banks have a strong reputation for dealing with customers. By switching provider, you may find you get a better service.
Explore: Ways to bank
7 working day Current Account Switch Guarantee 
This guarantee means your new bank must arrange to transfer your:
existing outgoing payments, such as Direct Debits 
incoming payments, such as your salary 
All you need to do is agree to the 'Current Account Switch Agreement' and the 'Current Account Closure Instruction'.
In the unlikely event that anything goes wrong with the switch, your new bank will refund you if you’re left out of pocket.
None of your regular payments will be affected because of a switch. And, if required, any payments sent to your old account by mistake will be redirected to your new one.
Find out how to switch current accounts using the Current Account Switch Guarantee.
No harm to your credit rating 
Simply switching from one bank to another using the Current Account Switch Service won't affect your credit rating.
However, when you open a new account, your new bank may run a credit score check. This could affect your credit rating.
In the unlikely event that you have any problems with payments during the switch (such as a standing order), your new bank or building society will fix them. This means your credit rating won't be affected.
All figures, unless otherwise stated, are from Sticky and Censuswide for HSBC. Total sample size was 2,009 adults. Fieldwork was undertaken between 12 to 15 December 2022. The survey was carried out online. The figures have been weighted and are representative of all UK adults (aged 16+).
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC current accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Benefits of a current account 
Banking terms you need to know 
Choosing a bank account\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/benefits-of-switching-current-accounts/
########Top of main content 
Joint bank accounts 
Compare our bank accounts for managing shared finances 
Find your perfect joint bank account 
Take care of shared bills and household expenses with friends or partners, by opening a joint account. You’ll both be able to access your account, make payments and share the rewards and benefits of banking with HSBC.
Why get a joint current account with HSBC? 
Hassle-free switching 
No monthly account fee 
VISA debit card with contactless payments, subject to status 
Manage your money anytime with online banking and our mobile banking app 
Adding someone else to your existing current account 
If you want to add someone else to your existing account, you'll both need to visit your nearest branch together.
Each of you should bring one form of photo ID and one proof of address. Find out which documents we accept.
You can find your nearest branch using our branch finder.
Sorry, but you can't add someone else to any of these accounts:
ISAs
Student Accounts
HSBC Expat personal accounts
HSBC Currency Accounts
Online Bonus Savers
products which are no longer on sale 
accounts previously converted from joint to sole
Our best current accounts for everyday banking 
Bank Account
Advance Bank Account
Premier Bank Account
Switching offers	Not at this time	Not at this time	Not at this time	
Arranged overdrafts, subject to status	
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable)22 view footnote 2 on the first £25, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 38.9% APR (variable)33 view footnote 3. Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for the HSBC Bank Account is £20. Further details can be found online at our Overdrafts page.
	
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable)22 view footnote 2 on the first £25, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 38.9% APR (variable)33 view footnote 3. Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for the HSBC Advance Account is £20. Further details can be found online at our Overdrafts page.
	
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable)22 view footnote 2 on the first £500, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 21.8% APR (variable)33 view footnote 3. Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for the HSBC Premier Account is £20. Further details can be found online at our Overdrafts page.
	
Additional benefits	
£300 daily ATM cash withdrawals
	
worldwide support services
£500 daily ATM cash withdrawals
ATM cash withdrawals outside the UK have no HSBC non-sterling cash fees (a non-sterling transaction fee of 2.75% still applies)
	
exclusive family benefits
worldwide support services
£1,000 daily ATM cash withdrawals
ATM cash withdrawals outside the UK have no HSBC non-sterling cash fees (a non-sterling transaction fee of 2.75% still applies)
Premier Relationship Management Service
complimentary Worldwide Travel cover provided by Aviva Insurance Ltd, UK Resident under the age of 70
	
Additional information	Financial eligibility criteria and terms and conditions apply.	Financial eligibility criteria and terms and conditions apply.	Financial eligibility criteria and terms and conditions apply.	
	View Bank Account	View Advance Bank Account	View Premier Bank Account	
Our best current accounts for everyday banking 
Switching offers	
Bank Account
Not at this time	
Advance Bank Account
Not at this time	
Premier Bank Account
Not at this time	
	
Arranged overdrafts, subject to status	
Bank Account
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable)22 view footnote 2 on the first £25, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 38.9% APR (variable)33 view footnote 3. Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for the HSBC Bank Account is £20. Further details can be found online at our Overdrafts page.
	
Advance Bank Account
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable)22 view footnote 2 on the first £25, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 38.9% APR (variable)33 view footnote 3. Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts and ways of borrowing.
The monthly cap on unarranged overdraft charges for the HSBC Advance Account is £20. Further details can be found online at our Overdrafts page.
	
Premier Bank Account
Representative example: 0% EAR (variable)22 view footnote 2 on the first £500, 39.9% EAR (variable) on anything above that, giving a representative annual percentage rate (APR) of 21.8% APR (variable)33 view footnote 3. Based on an arranged overdraft of £1,200.
How does our overdraft compare? The representative APR shows the cost of borrowing over a year, so you can use it to compare the cost of our overdraft against other overdrafts \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/joint-bank-accounts/
########Top of main content 
What is overdraft repeat use? 
Overdraft repeat use refers to the depth of use and reliance on an overdraft that may cause avoidable charges. 
Overdrafts are designed for short-term borrowing. As a responsible lender, we monitor overdraft accounts to check if they’re being used repeatedly. We consider a few factors, including:
how much of the overdraft is being used over a 3-month period 
how much is paid in and out of the account that the overdraft is linked to 
Why should you try to avoid overdraft repeat use? 
When you use your overdraft above any interest-free buffer you have, you'll be charged interest. This is generally at a higher interest rate than other ways of borrowing, like a credit card or personal loan.
Overdrafts are meant for short-term borrowing. For example, if you need to do a food shop before payday, an overdraft can help you bridge the gap.
If you use your overdraft often, you may want to look at your spending habits and other ways of borrowing to reduce the amount of interest you pay. 
Explore: Overdraft repeat use FAQs
How do you know if your account is in repeat use? 
If your account is in repeat use, you’ll receive a letter to let you know, along with some options to help reduce the interest you pay. We’ll review how you get on – in managing your overdraft – and contact you again.
We’ll continue to contact you if your account remains in repeat usage.
How can you reduce your debt? 
You may want to create a budget to help you manage your finances. This can help you break down your income and outgoings and identify where your money is being spent. You’ll then be able to see where you can make changes or, possibly, cut back on your outgoings. 
Explore: How to get out of your overdraft
Other steps you can take that may help:
review your tax codes to ensure you're paying the right amount of taxreview your tax codes to ensure you're paying the right amount of tax This link will open in a new window 
see if you're eligible for any tax creditssee if you're eligible for any tax credits This link will open in a new window 
check if you're entitled to any government benefitscheck if you're entitled to any government benefits This link will open in a new window 
save money on energy by changing your habits or switching your energy supplier 
Using tech and tools 
Using online and mobile banking can help you keep track of your spending. 
If you’re an HSBC UK customer, you may find it useful to use a tool like Balance After Bills – a feature in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. It shows how much you could have left once scheduled bills (standing orders and Direct Debits) are taken into account.
You can also recieve text alerts to let you know when you go into your overdraft – or are about to – so you can try to avoid overdraft charges. This service is set up automatically when you take out an HSBC current account, but you can choose to opt out.
Explore: Managing your money with tech and tools
Finding what's best for you 
To see how much an overdraft could cost you over a period of up to 31 days, use our overdraft cost calculator.
Other borrowing options include a credit card or personal loan. These may have a lower interest rate and help you set a repayment plan. You should only consider taking out a loan or credit card if you can comfortably afford the repayments. Loans and credit cards are subject to status.
Explore: Credit cards vs personal loans: funding options explained
Where else can you get assistance? 
If you’re concerned about your overdraft, get in touch with us and we can discuss your options and how we can support you.
Many independent organisations can provide help and give general advice about managing money.
You can find out about free independent money advisers in your area from:
Citizens AdviceCitizens Advice This link will open in a new window 
MoneyHelperMoneyHelper This link will open in a new window 
The following helpline services can offer help and advice:
National DebtlineNational Debtline This link will open in a new window 
StepChange Debt CharityStepChange Debt Charity This link will open in a new window 
Further help with your finances 
If money worries are making you feel anxious – you're not alone. There are ways to get help and support with your finances. Visit our money worries page to find out more.
Back to top 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to stop spending more than you earn 
How to make the right financial decisions 
How to build an emergency fund\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/overdrafts/what-is-overdraft-repeat-use/
########Top of main content 
What is a BACS payment? 
A BACS transaction is an electronic money transfer between banks. 
If you pay the household bills or use a subscription service, you will have made a payment via BACS before.
There are two types of BACS transactions:
Direct Debit 
This is where you give permission for a company to automatically take payments from your account on an agreed schedule, such as each month. Examples include mortgage payments, utility bills or council tax. 
Direct Credit 
This is where money is paid into your account by a third party. Examples include salaries, pensions and expenses. 
What does BACS stand for? 
BACS stands for Bankers’ Automated Clearing System.
It’s a regulated payment system run by Bacs Payment Schemes Limited (now Pay.UK) and is one of the most common ways that money is sent and received from bank to bank.
How to set up a BACS transaction 
If you’re an HSBC customer, here’s how you can make a BACS payment via Direct Debit:
Gather your details 
You’ll need your name and address, your bank’s name and address, and your account number and sort code. 
Request a Direct Debit 
This could be online, over the phone or you may need to request a physical form from the company. 
Finalise the set-up 
Agree a date when payments will be taken. Payments will continue to be made on the agreed date until you cancel the Direct Debit. 
We’ve pre-filled the account details for hundreds of major companies so, if you’re paying a company, try searching our company list first. If the company you're paying isn't included, you'll need to add them as a new payee.
Explore: How to set up a Direct Debit and making payments
How to get paid by Direct Credit 
To get paid by Direct Credit, you’ll need to give the payer your sort code and account number.
You should receive the payment automatically once:
the payment is initiated and approved by the payer 
the sending bank has processed it 
If a BACS payment is not received, check with the payer and confirm that the payment details are accurate.
How long does a BACS payment take? 
A BACS payment normally takes three working days to go through, as long as it’s sent before the cut-off time. So if a BACS payment is sent Friday before the cut-off time, it should arrive by Tuesday the next week.
Can BACS payments go in at any time of day? 
BACS payments will usually go into an account between 1am and 7am. This is the standard BACS payment time, so if a payment doesn’t arrive by 7am, it may be processed the next working day.
Back to top 
What next? 
Online money management tools 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a CHAPS payment? 
How to bank safely online 
Latest scam warnings\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/what-is-a-bacs-payment/
########Top of main content 
What is a CHAPS payment? 
A CHAPS payment is a same-day transfer between banks that can be used for large amounts of money. 
If you need to pay someone straight away or transfer a large amount of money, CHAPS transfers allow you to make same-day, high-value electronic payments. 
You might use CHAPS if you were paying the money for a home deposit or moving your savings between accounts. A business may use CHAPS transfers to pay their suppliers or their taxes.
What does CHAPS stand for? 
CHAPS stands for Clearing House Automated Payment System. 
The Bank of England (BoE) has been responsible for the CHAPS system since 2017, so transfers must be made in pounds sterling. Before that, CHAPS was operated by a private entity (CHAPS Co).
How to make a CHAPS payment 
You can send money up to your personal payment limit to friends and family or up to £25,000 for payments to a company via online and mobile banking. Payments above these limits will be sent as a CHAPS payment.
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can send a CHAPS payment in branch or by post. If you hold an HSBC Premier account, you can also do this over the phone.
To make a CHAPS payment in branch, you'll need to bring valid ID and the details of the person you want to pay.
There is no payment limit with a CHAPS transfer.
Find out more about personal payment limits.
Are there any CHAPS fees? 
Yes, you’ll have to pay a fee to make a CHAPS payments with us. The amount will depend on which type of account you’re paying into and the payment method. 
Here’s a summary of CHAPS fees:
Charges for sending money to an HSBC, first direct or M&S account 
Account holder Branch Telephone Post 
HSBC customer
	£17	na	£17	
HSBC Premier customer	£12	£12	£17	
Charges for sending money to an HSBC, first direct or M&S account 
Account holder HSBC customer
HSBC customer
	
Branch £17 £17	
Telephone na na	
Post £17 £17	
	
Account holder HSBC Premier customer HSBC Premier customer	
Branch £12 £12	
Telephone £12 £12	
Post £17 £17	
Charges for sending money to a non HSBC Group account 
Account holder Branch Telephone Post 
HSBC customer	£17	na	£17	
HSBC Premier customer	£17	£17	£17	
Charges for sending money to a non HSBC Group account 
Account holder HSBC customer HSBC customer	
Branch £17 £17	
Telephone na na	
Post £17 £17	
	
Account holder HSBC Premier customer HSBC Premier customer	
Branch £17 £17	
Telephone £17 £17	
Post £17 £17	
Are CHAPS payments secure? 
As CHAPS is operated by the Bank of England, it’s considered a safe and secure way to transfer funds. A bank or building society must meet strict technical criteria to use CHAPS, such as access to the SWIFT network (a secure financial messaging service).
We have a range of payment security measures in place to protect customers, including our physical and Digital Secure Key.
Can a CHAPS payment be reversed? 
CHAPS payments can’t be reversed. If you’re worried about a payment, acting quickly can help get things sorted.
Back to top 
What next? 
How to bank safely online 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a BACS payment? 
Latest scam warnings 
Sending money outside the UK\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/what-is-a-chaps-payment/
########Top of main content 
How to bank safely online 
Shopping and banking online or in mobile apps can be fast and convenient. 
But it’s important to protect yourself against risks, just as you would when spending or managing your money any other way. Here are some online banking safety tips:
Keep your device secure
Create strong passwords
Look for secure connections
Avoid scams
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Keep your devices secure 
Make sure your phone, tablet or computer is secure by keeping your operating systems up to date.
You can set laptops and desktops to install software updates automatically as soon as they become available. The same goes for app updates on your devices. Choose to install them whenever you’re connected to Wi-Fi and a new update is available, or at night when your device is plugged in.
This way you benefit from any security enhancements, which are designed to make it difficult for hackers to gain access.
You should also install anti-virus software from a well-known, reputable and trusted company to protect your device from any malicious activity. You can find out more by visiting our security centre.
Create strong passwords 
Complex online passwords might feel like a hassle, but they do an important job protecting your personal information.
When it comes to passwords, longer equals stronger. Using a combination of upper case, lower case, numbers and symbols also makes them harder to crack. Another way to strengthen a password is to string together unrelated words.
If you're banking online or using a mobile app, there are further security measures you can put in place. For example, you can used fingerprint or face recognition to add biometric security to your banking app. Voice ID also adds a strong layer of protection when doing phone banking. This is known as 2-factor authentication. At HSBC, we’re also now using behavioural biometrics as an extra check when you’re making online payments.
Setting up a digital account can be a good form of defence against cyber-criminals. The layers of security typically make it harder for them to access your account.
Look for secure connections 
Look for a padlock in the address bar to confirm your web connection is secure. But remember, the padlock doesn’t guarantee an authentic site.
For example, if you’re on hsbc.co.uk and see a green padlock, you know you’re securely interacting with HSBC. But if you’re on hs8c.co.uk, you could still see a green padlock, indicating a secure connection, but you wouldn’t be interacting with HSBC. You might be on a site that’s been set up to trick you into thinking that’s what you’re doing.
So always make sure a website is genuine by checking the address for subtle misspellings, additional words, characters or other irregularities. Sites like Trustpilot Trustpilot This link will open in a new window can help you work out if a site is legitimate.
Shopping and bank transfers
When shopping, check again for the padlock in the address bar before entering your personal or payment details and don't give more information than is needed for the transaction.
For example, only fill in the mandatory fields.
You can usually buy things without having to create an account – so don't create one if you don’t have to. And, where possible, don't allow the retailer to save your payment details.
Never pay for something by bank transfer if you don’t know the seller. Always use a credit card, debit card, PayPal or a payment option that offers some protection against fraud.
If there's suspicious activity on your account, contact us immediately on 03457 404 404.
Avoid scams 
Even after you’ve put these security measures in place, you need to be mindful of common scams. Here are some tips on what to look out for.
Requests to move money
Genuine banks won’t ask you to move money to another account and won't ask for your PIN, password or other personal details out of the blue.
Unknown senders
Never click on links or attachments from unknown sources.
More useful links 
Take Five – to stop fraud Take Five – to stop fraud This link will open in a new window
Cyber Aware Cyber Aware This link will open in a new window
Get Safe Online Get Safe Online This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Latest scam warnings 
Is digital banking secure? 
How to avoid holiday scams\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/cyber-security-how-to-bank-safely/
########Top of main content 
How many credit cards should you have? 
There’s no limit on how many credit cards you can have – the important thing is that you manage them responsibly. 
For some people, one credit card could mean too much temptation to spend, while others may like having several to take advantage of rewards points or interest-free periods. 
Here are some factors that can help you make the decision about whether or not another credit card is a good idea.
What are the benefits of having multiple credit cards? 
Credit cards can help build your credit history 
If you haven’t borrowed before, it can be difficult for lenders to predict how likely you are to repay debts. Having a credit card or loan, and meeting your repayments, can help build your credit score by proving you’re reliable.
It can help to have extra funds on hand 
Each credit card will have its own credit limit, which means you’ll have that money available should you need to spend it. This can give you confidence that if something costly happens you’ll be able to handle it. However, if possible, it’s a good idea to build an emergency fund to give you this added security.
Different types of credit cards can be used for different purposes 
Used wisely, having multiple credit cards for different purposes can help you earn rewards points or take advantage of an interest-free period for a set amount of time. 
Explore: Types of credit cards 
Credit card purchases can be protected under Section 75 
Using a credit card also means your purchases between £100 and £30,000 are protected under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. 
If a retailer doesn't deliver your goods or goes bankrupt before you get what you paid for, for example, your card issuer will help you get your money back.
Things to consider when you have multiple credit cards 
Temptation to spend on multiple credit cards 
The more funds you have available, the more temptation you may have to spend. Keep that in mind before applying for any new credit card.
Everything you spend on a credit card will need to be paid back – possibly with interest if you don’t pay off the full balance each month – so it’s important to manage your spending habits. 
Explore: Tips for using your credit card 
Managing multiple repayments can be tough 
If you borrow money on multiple credit cards, you’ll have to make multiple monthly repayments. This isn’t necessarily a bad thing, but it may increase the chance of you forgetting one. 
Setting up Direct Debits automates your payments – so you don’t have to think about them each month – and ensures your bills are paid on time to avoid late payment fees. 
Before taking out a new credit card, think about your current situation. Do you find making repayments time consuming or overwhelming? If so, it may not be a good idea to add another repayment. Or are you comfortable with the way you manage your money? If that’s the case, adding a credit card may not have much of an impact.
Explore: How to avoid credit card charges
You don't want to have too much credit on hand 
When making a decision about whether to accept an application for a credit card or a loan, a lender may look at how much credit you already have available. 
If you have multiple credit cards, they may look at the credit limits on all of the credit cards combined rather than just the money you’ve borrowed. 
If you have multiple credit cards that are unused, this may also raise some questions and potentially impact your credit score. 
Can multiple credit card applications affect your credit score? 
While it’s good to show lenders that you can successfully manage multiple credit accounts, applying for credit too many times can raise a few red flags. 
When you apply for a credit card, the provider will run a hard credit check on your credit report to see how reliable you are at borrowing and repaying money. 
If you apply for too many credit cards in a short amount of time, it can appear that you are struggling financially – and lower your credit score. This can affect your chances of being approved for credit in the future. 
Explore: How to improve your credit score
Should you get another credit card? 
The right answer will depend on your circumstances and your money habits. These are some good questions to ask yourself:
Why do you want the card? 
What will the benefit be? 
Will it make managing money harder? 
Will you be tempted to spend more? 
How to transfer a credit card balance to another card 
If you already have multiple cards and want to simplify your repayments and potentially save on interest, a balance transfer may suit you. 
A balance transfer credit card lets you transfer multiple balances onto one credit card - giving you a single monthly repayment and a period where you may not be charged any interest. This can give you some breathing space to help you manage your debt. 
Explore: How to use a balance transfer credit card
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to do at the end of a balance transfer 
Should you increase your credit limit? 
Tips for paying off your credit card\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/how-many-credit-cards-should-you-have/
########Top of main content 
6 tips for using your credit card overseas 
Whether you’re going on holiday or a business trip, travelling with your credit card is a safe and convenient way to spend money abroad. 
But there may be charges for using it – particularly if you withdraw cash. 
Follow these tips to spend safely and avoid additional costs when using your credit card abroad.
1. Double-check the credit card expiry date 
Your trip abroad might not go to plan if your credit card doesn't work, so make sure it’s not going to expire while you’re away. Even if your card is not due to expire, it’s worth taking another type of payment card with you as a backup. This could be a debit card or another credit card – just in case something happens to your main card.
2. Update your contact details 
It’s a good idea to keep your contact details up to date before you travel. This enables your bank to get in touch with you, if and when they need to. 
If you’re an HSBC customer, we’ll look out for any unusual spending on your accounts – just as we do at home. You can update your contact details here.
3. Set up monthly repayments if you're on a long trip 
Going on a gap year, or a holiday of a lifetime? Avoid missing any credit card or bill payments while you’re away by setting up a Direct Debit or standing order. This helps you spend less time sorting out bills and more time enjoying yourself.
Explore: Managing your money before, during and after travel
4. Take contact details for your bank 
Make a note of your bank’s overseas number to call in an emergency – if your credit card is stolen, for example. By setting up online and mobile banking, you can also log on to your account, keep track of your spending and block or cancel a card, immediately, if you need to.
If you’re an HSBC customer, you can temporarily block your card while abroad. If your card is lost or stolen, call us on +44 1442 422929 or use our mobile banking app to temporarily freeze your card.
Explore: Banking on the go
5. Pay in the local currency 
When using your card abroad, whether it’s in a restaurant or a shop, you may be charged a ‘non-sterling transaction fee’. But if you’re given the choice of paying in pound sterling (GBP) or local currency, consider choosing local currency. This way, you’ll avoid dynamic currency conversion fees (when transactions are processed in GBP) and, in most cases, will get a better exchange rate. 
Explore: Should you pay in local currency outside the UK?
6. Avoid using your credit card for ATM withdrawals 
You can use your credit card abroad to withdraw local currency at cash machines, but you may be charged a non-sterling cash fee, as well as a cash advance fee, on every amount you withdraw.
If you need cash, either get travel money before you go, or use your debit card to withdraw. Keep in mind, you may still be charged an international transaction fee on your debit card.
Explore: Should you use a card or travel money outside the UK?
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Using your card abroad: fees and charges 
Understanding travel money: what you need to know 
Make sure you and your money are holiday-ready\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/using-your-credit-card-overseas/
########Top of main content 
5 common credit card myths 
From unavoidable interest and debt, to the impact a missed payment has on your credit score – there are a few misconceptions about credit cards. 
If you’re looking at taking out a credit card, you want to be sure of what you’re getting.
Credit cards can help you manage your money, build your credit rating and even earn rewards points. But if you don’t use them correctly, you can also get into debt and harm your credit rating.
Knowing what’s true, and what’s not so true, is a great place to start when thinking about how to best use a credit card. 
Here are some common credit card myths.
Myth 1: You'll get into large debt if you get a credit card 
You’re in control of how much you spend and how you manage your repayments. If you pay off the full amount you owe every month, you won’t get into debt or pay interest charges.
If you’re worried that the temptation to spend may be too much, it’s worth considering whether a credit card is right for you. Why do you want the credit card and what will you use it for?
If you decide to take out a credit card, setting yourself clear rules can help you avoid spending more than you’re comfortable with. 
You can also look at setting your credit limit at a smaller amount to start, so you can reduce the chance of getting into any trouble.
Explore: Tips for using your credit card
Myth 2: A low APR is one of the most important things to look for 
If you can’t afford to pay off the credit card balance in full each month – the annual percentage rate (APR) is important, as you'll be paying interest on the debt.
But if you do plan to pay off the full amount each month – the APR may not be as important. You want to weigh up the cost of a higher APR against other benefits, such as air miles or rewards.
Explore: Types of credit cards
Myth 3: All you have to do is make the minimum repayment 
While this is technically true, it’s really important to pay your balance in full whenever possible. Only making the minimum repayment on your credit card can mean it takes you longer to clear a credit card debt, and you could pay a significant amount in interest. 
You should always try to pay your balance in full or, if that’s not possible, as much as you can.
Remember: if you have an HSBC credit card, any refunds you receive on your account won’t count towards your minimum payment. You still need to pay the full minimum payment, unless the refund reduces your balance to an amount lower than your minimum payment. In that case, you’ll only have to pay the remaining balance.
Explore: Tips for paying off your credit card
Myth 4: Missing a payment won’t impact your credit rating 
While your credit rating looks at your borrowing history and financial activity over a period of time, even missing one credit card payment can negatively impact your credit rating. 
It’s important to stay on top of things, otherwise you may find you’re limited in what you can borrow in the future. Setting up a Direct Debit automates your payments, so there’s one less thing to have to remember.
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score
Myth 5: Having multiple credit cards is better for your credit score 
This isn't necessarily true. Your credit rating is based on the different types of credit you have (which could include a student loan, a mortgage and credit cards), as well as other factors, such as:
the length of your credit history 
how many times you've applied for credit recently 
the amount of debt you have 
Explore: How many credit cards should you have?
Credit is subject to status. Eligibility criteria apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How do credit cards work? 
How to avoid credit card charges 
How to improve your credit score\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/credit-card-myths-dispelled/
########Top of main content 
Using your Rewards Credit Card 
How to collect and redeem reward points
Representative 23.9% APR (variable). Credit is subject to status
Let your purchases pay you back 
Collecting and spending reward points is what your Rewards Credit Card is all about. Register with the Mastercard Pay with Rewards app or website, then use your points to save money on whatever you fancy.
They’re your points. Enjoy them your way.
How to get started 
Watch our quick-start guide 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
How to collect reward points 
There’s nothing to it. Every time you make a purchase1 using your HSBC Rewards Credit Card, you’ll automatically collect reward points. 100 points equals £1.
Collect points when you spend
You’ll collect 1 reward point for every £5 you spend on your card, online or in store.
£5 spent = 1 point
Get extra points at selected merchants
Earn up to 10 points for every £1 you spend at selected stores, including Groupon, Sweaty Betty and Urban Outfitters.
Log on to Mastercard Pay with Rewards for a full list of stores.
£1 spent = Up to 10 points
Enjoy bonus points too
When you make your first purchase you’ll receive 2,500 bonus points (worth £25). You’ll also receive the same number of bonus points if you spend £10,000 or more on your card in a year.2
2,500 points per bonus
How to redeem your reward points 
To get started, register with Mastercard Pay with Rewards via the app or website. Then you can use your points to save money on whatever you want, whenever you want, online or in stores.
1. Log on to Pay with Rewards
When you’d like to use your points towards a purchase, log on to the Mastercard Pay with Rewards app or website. Find out how to register below.
2. Turn on 'Next purchase'
Switch on 'Next purchase' to use your points towards the next thing you buy. Alternatively you can set your preferences to use your points automatically as soon as you get them.
Don’t worry if you forget to do this. You can use your points against purchases you’ve made in the past 7 days.
3. Use your card as usual
Use your card as you normally would. The monetary equivalent of your points will be credited to your account, saving you money on what you’ve bought. 
Get started now 
Register with Mastercard Pay with Rewards 
Got your card? Register with Mastercard Pay with Rewards and start using your reward points right away:
check your reward points balance, 24/7
see which merchants are offering extra reward points
redeem your reward points whenever you want
Download the app today 
This link will open in a new window 
This link will open in a new window 
Prefer to use the website? Register hereRegister here This link will open in a new window
Pay with Rewards FAQs 
Who can apply for a Rewards Credit Card 
You can apply for a Rewards Credit Card if you’re 18 or older, live in the UK and have an annual income of £6,800 or more (before tax).
You’ll also need to have either:
an HSBC Advance Bank Account
paid at least £1,750 a month (or a total of at least £10,500) into an HSBC Bank Account or HSBC Premier Bank Account over the past 6 months.
You might be interested in
HSBC Rewards Credit Card
The credit card that rewards you when you shop.
Explore our credit cards
Take a look at our full range and find the right card for you.
Rewards credit cards explained
Learn about the different kinds of rewards credit cards you can get.
Additional information 
1 You’ll earn reward points for any purchases you make with your card. However, you won’t earn reward points on the following things: ATM cash withdrawals; cash advances or cash related payments; balance transfer transactions; tax payment transactions; or any fees or charges incurred through using your credit card.
2 To get these ‘anniversary’ bonus points, you’ll need to make £10,000+ worth of eligible spending in a 12 month period, which starts from the date you opened your credit card account. ‘Eligible spending’ means all purchases with the exclusion of the following things: ATM cash withdrawals; cash advances or cash related payments; balance transfer transactions; tax payment transactions; or any fees or charges incurred through using your credit card. You can earn anniversary bonus points for each of the first 5 years you have your card. They are paid on the anniversary date of when you opened your account.
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/rewards/redeem/
########Top of main content 
Does a balance transfer affect your credit score? 
Any change to your financial situation can impact your credit score, including a balance transfer. 
If a balance transfer helps you tackle your debts and pay them off sooner, it will improve your credit score over the long term. In the short term, however, applying for a balance transfer credit card could potentially lower your credit score.
How transferring a balance impacts your credit score 
When you apply for a new balance transfer credit card, the lender will check your credit report as part of the approval process. This hard credit check will leave a visible footprint on your credit file, which can cause a temporary drop in your credit score. 
But as you’re transferring the balance from one credit card to another – possibly with 0%, or at least a reduced interest rate – you may find your credit score improves over time. This is because you’re likely to be able to manage and pay off the balance quicker – assuming you don’t spend money on the card and add to your existing debt.
Explore: How to use a balance transfer credit card
How to reduce the chances of any negative impact 
Don't apply for multiple balance transfer cards at once 
Don't close lots of credit cards after completing a balance transfer 
Repay the credit card debt 
1. Don't apply for multiple balance transfer credit cards at once 
Applying for several credit cards at once can have a negative impact on your credit score as it indicates to lenders you may be struggling to manage your money. 
Rather than applying for multiple cards, just to see what you’ll be approved for – find the right type of credit card for you and apply for that.
If you’re not approved for the card you want, it could be worth checking your credit report to make sure everything’s accurate before applying for another credit card. In the UK, there are 3 main credit reference agencies:
Experian 
Equifax 
TransUnion 
There are also things you can do to improve your credit score to increase your chance of being approved for another credit card.
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score
2. Don't close lots of credit cards after completing a balance transfer 
One of the factors that impacts your credit score is how long you’ve held certain financial products. If you close several credit cards that you’ve had for a longer amount of time, this can have a short-term impact on your credit score. 
Managing multiple cards with varying interest rates can be stressful, so don’t let this put you off closing any credit cards you no longer need. Your score should rebuild over time, but if you really want to minimise any impact you could consider just closing some of your credit cards rather than all of them.
3. Repay the credit card debt 
The big advantage of a balance transfer is a potential interest-free period when you can pay off (or reduce) your debt. If you don’t repay the debt, or spend more and end up in further debt – there may be a negative impact on your credit score.
To help you stay motivated, it can be a good idea to plan out your repayments over the course of the reduced-interest period. For example, if you have a debt of £5,000 and an interest-free period of 18 months, you could set yourself a goal of repaying £280 every month. This means your debt will be clear by the time the interest-free period is over.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC balance transfer credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How many credit cards should you have? 
Hard vs soft credit checks: What's the difference? 
What to do at the end of a balance transfer\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/does-a-balance-transfer-affect-credit-score/
########Top of main content 
How to stick to your savings goals in 2023 
New research shows only 36% of people in Great Britain have a savings target – and just 1 in 5 think they’ll hit their financial goals. 
From everyday living costs, to unexpected bills and life events, it can be hard to save money and avoid dipping into any savings you may already have. Sound familiar? 
Here, we share insights into how Brits feel about saving, and the main reasons stopping them from reaching their targets – plus 5 steps to start saving successfully.
Younger Brits lead the way in setting savings goals 
The study, carried out by YouGov for HSBC, surveyed 2,002 adults in England, Scotland and Wales. 
More than half (55%) of 25 to 34-year-olds are working towards a specific target, which is higher than older age groups. 
But, despite their best intentions, younger adults (aged 18 to 34) are also more likely to have to dip into their savings because of overspending (39%).
Women (40%) are more likely than men (32%) to have a savings strategy. 
The data also suggests a regional divide. People living in the South West and North East of England were the most likely to have a savings goal (42%), with those from the East of England and Wales the least likely to have a plan (31%).
Common reasons why people struggle to save 
Overall, 39% of people surveyed say they’ve managed to reach a savings target, with the most common barriers being:
an unexpected life event (40%) 
dipping into savings to make up for a shortfall of cash (29%) 
setting a goal that was too high (10%) 
5 steps to savings success 
1. Pay off any expensive debts first 
If you have a credit card or overdraft, for example, you’ll typically pay interest on what you borrow (unless you have an interest-free period). If the interest you’ll be charged is greater than the interest you’ll earn through saving, it’s a good idea to prioritise your debt first. 
Explore: Should you save or pay off debt?
2. Prepare for emergencies 
It can be disheartening when you’re forced to raid your savings for things like a broken boiler or car repairs. As it’s hard to predict if, and when, you’ll need this money – emergencies should always be the first thing you save for.
New to saving? Start with a safety net of £500. You can then slowly build up to an emergency fund (ideally 3 to 6 months’ worth of living costs) for larger financial shocks.
Once you have some money set aside for the unexpected, you can focus on saving for other things – knowing that you have this money to fall back on, should you need it.
3. Start saving little and often 
You’ll be surprised how saving a little amount each month can soon add up. For example, putting aside £1 every day for a whole year is a saving of £365. 
The earlier you start saving, the more time you have to earn compound interest. This is one of the big advantages of putting away a small amount and letting it grow.
4. Make sure your savings target is in reach 
While it’s good to challenge yourself, your savings goals need to be achievable to keep you motivated. Setting your goals too high within a short space of time can feel overwhelming. 
Our budget planner can help you work out how much you can comfortably afford to put aside each month. Our savings goal calculator can also give you an idea of a realistic timeframe to work towards.
5. Make saving money easier with online tools 
You could set up a standing order to transfer the money straight into your savings account on pay day. That way, you can set it and forget it – your saving habit will take care of itself.
Looking to track your progress? Use our financial fitness score tool now and in the future to compare scores.
What does a successful savings goal look like? 
When you have a savings goal in mind, it helps to get specific – think about the reasons why you want to save a certain amount. Try to find something that excites and motivates you. 
A successful savings goal might look like this:
A couple are looking to buy their first flat, which costs £150,000. They’re aiming to save £7,500 for a deposit. After creating a budget, they agree they can save £300 a month between them. They set a timeframe of 26 months to reach their target. By setting a specific, realistic goal, they have something to look forward to, which makes it all worthwhile. 
According to MoneyHelper11 Source 1, people who set a money savings goal, save faster than those who don’t.
Get more tips on how to set meaningful savings goals.
All figures, unless otherwise stated, are from YouGov Plc for HSBC. Total sample size was 2,002 adults. Fieldwork was undertaken between 17th to 20th September 2021. The survey was carried out online. The figures have been weighted and are representative of all GB adults (aged 18+).
1Source: MoneyHelper: How to set a savings goal Source: MoneyHelper: How to set a savings goal This link will open in a new window
Did you find this article useful? 
Yes 
No 
Please tell us your reason
Too complicated 
Not enough information 
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC savings accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
10 challenges to help you save money 
Impact of inflation on savings 
Saving vs investing\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/how-to-stick-to-your-savings-goals/
########Top of main content 
Credit cards vs debit cards: What's the difference? 
A credit card lets you borrow money to repay later, whereas a debit card uses the money from your bank account straight away. 
While you can use both credit and debit cards to pay for purchases online and in shops, knowing some of the key differences could save you money.
See when it may be better to use one instead of the other.
What is a debit card? 
When you use a debit card, you’re spending your own money. The money automatically comes out of your bank account and you won’t be charged interest to use it.
Keep in mind – if you make a withdrawal, or purchase, that takes you below your available balance in your current account, you'll go into an overdraft and may be charged interest for using it.
What is a credit card? 
When you buy something using your credit card, you’re borrowing money from your credit card provider to repay later. You may be charged interest on what you owe if you don’t clear your balance in full each month.
Credit cards also have a credit limit – the maximum amount you can borrow on that card at any one time. You may be charged a fee if you go over your credit limit. 
There are different types of credit cards, including:
rewards credit cards – let you earn reward points as you use them 
Explore: Credit card rewards explained 
0% purchase credit cards – help spread the cost of items interest-free for a set period 
Explore: What is a 0% card for? 
balance transfer credit cards – let you move your balance to another card to save money 
Explore: What is a balance transfer? 
credit builder cards – help you build your credit score 
Explore: How do credit cards work?
When may it be better to use a credit card? 
If you’re able to pay off your debts without being charged interest, using a credit card has some advantages over a debit card.
Buying big-ticket and electrical items 
As well as enabling you to spread the cost of big purchases, a credit card gives you more protection than a debit card.
Your card provider is jointly liable with the retailer so, if the goods are faulty or the company goes bust, you’re entitled to claim your money back. Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, you may be covered for purchases between £100 and £30,000.
Booking holidays and travel 
Some hotels, airlines and hire car companies may only accept credit cards for reservations and bookings. You may also have extra protection under Section 75.
Explore: 6 tips for using your credit card overseas
Shopping to earn rewards 
Some credit cards offer rewards, such as cashback and frequent flyer points. Each time you make a purchase, you’ll earn points. Points can be exchanged for rewards, such as shopping vouchers and flights, as well as discounts on fuel and family days out. The more you spend on the card, the more you can save – as long as you always clear your balance each month.
To improve your credit score 
Using credit regularly and paying off your balance in full each month helps to improve your credit score. Having a good score shows lenders you’re responsible at repaying debt, which is important if you ever want to apply for a mortgage, or take out a loan. 
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score
When may it be better to use a debit card? 
Anyone who has a current account will have a debit card. It gives you quick access to your money and enables you to pay bills, shop and check your balance. But when should you use it ahead of a credit card?
Withdrawing cash 
Always use a debit card to withdraw money from a cash machine. It’s usually free in the UK. If you use a credit card to withdraw money, you’ll be charged a fee. You’ll also be charged interest on the money, even if you repay your balance as soon as possible.
Keeping a lid on your spending 
Whether you’re using a credit card, a debit card or both, you can keep an eye on how much you’re spending through online and mobile banking, as well as monthly statements. However, credit cards aren’t ideal for everyone – especially those who may be tempted to spend beyond their means.
Using only a debit card for your day-to-day spending can help prevent you from racking up serious credit card debt. If you pay for everything with a credit card, you might not notice the debt mounting up.
Explore: How to manage your spending habits
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is APR? 
How to get your first credit card 
Using a card or travel money outside the UK\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/credit-cards-vs-debit-cards/
########Top of main content 
10 challenges to help you save money 
Looking for a fun way to spend less and save some cash? We have 10 money saving challenges to choose from. 
1. The £1 savings challenge 
Put aside £1 every day for a whole year – that’s a saving of £365 in 365 days. You could also do this weekly or monthly and set up a standing order to transfer the money straight into your savings account.
2. The 1p savings challenge 
Increase the amount you save every day by 1p. Start by putting away 1p, then 2p and so on. Keep it up and in 1 year, you’ll have saved £667.95. Proof that starting small can lead to big things.
3. The 12-month challenge 
Take each month as a number and multiply by 10 to work out how much to save. For example, January (month 1) will be £10, February (month 2) will be £20 and March (month 3) will be £30. After 12 months, you’ll have saved £780.
4. Save your £2 coins challenge 
Every time you get a £2 coin, save it. While it may not seem a lot, putting aside every £2 coin you get can start to add up over the year. 
It doesn’t just have to be £2 coins you save – you could try save every £1 you get in a jar, or every £5 note.
5. Financial and physical health challenge 
Looking to improve your health this year? Why not tie it into a savings challenge for extra incentive? For example, if you’re starting a weight loss journey – you could save £1 for every pound you lose. If quitting smoking is your goal, you could save the money you would otherwise spend on cigarettes – helping your financial health as well as your physical health. 
6. No-spend challenge 
This challenge involves not spending money on anything but the bare necessities, such as food and bills, for a whole month. You could also do a no-spend challenge for a week or fortnight at any time of the year to give your savings a boost.
7. Little vices saving challenge 
This challenge relies on giving up 'little vices' – things you can live without. This could include a daily coffee, a shoe addiction or ordering a takeaway every week. You can either cut out all vices for an entire month or cut out certain vices for an even longer period. Not only will it help you become more mindful of your spending, you’ll save money too. 
8. 30 wear clothing challenge 
The 30 wear challenge is a commitment to wear a new item of clothing at least 30 times. It encourages you to pause and think about how you’ll use something before buying it. This is another way to practise mindful shopping. It can also reduce waste to help the environment and save you money in the process. Looking for an extra challenge? You could get creative and upcycle your old clothes, rather than buy new. 
9. Shop and swap challenge 
From your energy supplier to your supermarket – you can save by shopping around to find the best value for money. If your insurance policy is up for renewal, for example – now is the time to see whether it’s suitable for your needs. Or cancel any subscriptions you don’t use. Why not make 2023 the year of making positive changes to help you save money?
10. Take control of your finances in 2023 challenge 
Taking action feels good. Whether you’re looking to grow your money or get out of debt – there’s support available to help you reach your goal. Small steps can make a big impact and could be the beginning of a very different future.
Back to top 
What next? 
9 steps to financial fitness 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to create a Christmas budget 
Manage your money with tech and tools 
New ways to save for your future\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/challenges-to-help-you-save-money/
########Top of main content 
What to do at the end of a balance transfer promotion period 
If you're coming to the end of your 0% balance transfer period, you may be wondering what to do next. 
Here, we look at what happens when your introductory period ends and things to consider to help you understand your options.
What happens when your introductory period ends? 
Balance transfer credit cards typically come with an interest-free period. Once the promotional period ends, the interest rate will usually revert to the purchase interest rate.
You’re likely to be charged more interest on any existing debt, or future purchases. 
Explore: How balance transfer credit cards work
What are your options if you don’t pay your balance off in time? 
Most people who apply for a 0% balance transfer credit card do so to avoid paying interest on their debt. 
If you're coming to the end of your 0% balance transfer period and you haven't cleared your debt, here are a few things to consider.
How much will you need to pay in interest or fees? 
Once the 0% or reduced-interest period is over, consider the:
interest rate you’ll be charged on the balance 
interest rate you’ll be charged on any future purchases 
annual fee or any other fees 
Our credit card repayment calculator can help you work out how long it could take you to repay your balance and how much interest you’d pay.
Based on the above and how you plan to use the balance transfer card – is it still offering you a good deal? If not, shop around to see if there’s another type of card that could suit you.
You may benefit from a credit card with:
a lower interest rate 
an interest-free period on purchases 
better rewards for spending 
Could you transfer your balance to another credit card? 
If you still have a substantial amount of debt left on the card, you may be more interested in another balance transfer. 
Two things to think about:
Does it offer an interest-free or reduced-interest period? If so, how long does that period last? 
Is there a balance transfer fee? If so, do the benefits of the card make it worth paying the fee? 
It’s important to consider this option carefully. While it’s great to reduce the amount of interest you pay, you don’t want to just keep transferring the debt from one card to another.
You may be faced with the same situation once more and should take steps to clear the remaining debt before the introductory period ends. Applying for too many balance transfer credit cards can also negatively impact your credit score. 
Explore: How to use a balance transfer credit card
Do you have any other debts to pay? 
If you have debts in various places, including credit cards and loans – a debt consolidation loan could be an option. 
It merges your debts together, potentially saving you money and making it easier to manage with a single monthly repayment.
Explore: What is debt consolidation?
Need more help? 
If you need a bit of help getting your finances back on track, we have trained specialists who can help.
What are your options after you’ve paid off your balance? 
If you’ve managed to pay off the entire balance – good work, you’ve achieved your goal.
Do you still need a credit card? 
If so, review the terms of your balance transfer credit card. You may find another type of credit card is more suitable. 
If you no longer need a balance transfer credit card, you could close the card to reduce any temptation to spend. Just try to avoid closing lots of credit cards in a short space of time, as this can affect your credit score. 
Can you afford to build your savings? 
If you’ve cleared your debt, consider using the money you’ve set aside in your budget for credit card repayments to build your savings.
For example, if you’re used to putting £200 aside each month to repay your credit card – you could move it into a savings account instead. This way, you’d save £2,400 in 12 months, plus any other interest the savings account may accrue.
Explore: How to save money
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to get out of debt 
How to improve your credit score 
How to avoid credit card charges\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/what-to-do-end-balance-transfer/
########Top of main content 
What is a balance transfer credit card? 
A balance transfer allows you to move existing credit card debt onto another card with a lower or 0% interest rate. 
Our guide explains how balance transfer credit cards work and things you should know before you apply for one.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
How does a balance transfer work? 
Balance transfers work by moving your debt from one or more credit cards to another credit card. Any money you owe – your balance – is moved over to the new card. 
This is usually done to take advantage of a 0% interest (or low interest) introductory period. For example, if you’re paying high interest on your credit card, moving the balance over to a 0% balance transfer card would mean you’d pay no interest until the deal ends. It can help you pay off the balance faster and pay less interest overall. 
Once the promotional deal ends, the interest will rise – so, ideally, you should try and clear the debt before this happens. 
Explore: How to use a balance transfer credit card
Benefits of balance transfer credit cards 
Used wisely, a balance transfer credit card can help you:
take advantage of a 0% or low interest period to pay down more of what you owe and clear your debt faster 
keep on top of repayments, especially if you move several credit card balances onto one balance transfer credit card 
Things to consider before you apply 
While they can be an effective way to manage credit card repayments, there are a few things to consider before you apply for a balance transfer credit card.
What is the balance transfer fee? 
There's often a one-off handling fee when you make a balance transfer. 
It's usually a percentage of the amount you're transferring. You'll generally be charged up front and the amount will be added to the balance. 
Some providers also charge an annual fee. It’s important to take all fees into account when you’re assessing potential savings of a balance transfer against your current credit card.
Explore: How to avoid credit card charges
How long is the interest-free period? 
The length of the interest-free period is often set out in months, for example 0% for 24 months. To maximise your potential savings, you want to try to pay off your debt within the interest-free period. 
Explore: What is a 0% interest card?
What happens after the interest-free period ends? 
Once the promotional period ends, the interest rate will likely revert to the purchase interest rate. You’re likely to be charged more interest on any existing debt, or future purchases. 
You should be aware of the ongoing APR, and what the terms are for using the card after the balance transfer period. 
Explore: What to do at the end of a balance transfer promotion period
Can you afford the balance transfer credit card repayments? 
As with normal credit cards, you need to pay at least the minimum repayment every month and on time. If you don't keep up the repayments, you could find that the interest-free offer is withdrawn. 
While it’s possible to only repay the minimum each statement period, it’s ideal to repay as much as possible so you clear your debt faster.
Before taking out a balance transfer, set yourself a target date to clear the debt. This will help you figure out how much you should try to repay each month.
Is a balance transfer credit card right for you? 
Most balance transfer credit card providers will charge you their standard interest rate on purchases. However, the benefit of a balance transfer card is being able to focus on clearing existing debt. 
If you’re going to continue spending, it may not be the right type of credit card for you. 
Some cards offer 0% on balances and purchases, but the interest-free period is usually much shorter than other balance transfer credit cards.
What else do you need to know about balance transfers? 
Approval for a balance transfer credit card, and the credit limit will depend on your credit score and your income. This may affect how many transfers you can bring together on one credit card. Most banks also won't let you switch balances from one of their cards to another – including cards provided by other brands they own. 
Applying for too many credit cards, or switching too often, will show on your credit report and could negatively impact your credit score.
If you’d like to speak to someone about your finances, arrange an individual review with us to see how we can help.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC balance transfer credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Does a balance transfer affect your credit score? 
How to check your credit report 
How many credit cards should you have?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/what-is-a-balance-transfer/
########Top of main content 
What is a credit card interest-free period? 
An interest-free period is the amount of time you have to pay back what you owe on a credit card before having to pay any interest. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
What is an introductory interest-free period? 
Some lenders offer an introductory interest-free period on credit card purchases or balance transfers. The length of this period will vary depending on the card you choose, but it could last for 2 years or more. During that time, you wouldn’t have to pay interest on your balance, as long as you made at least minimum repayments on anything you spent.
Explore: What is a 0% credit card for?
What is a standard interest-free period? 
A standard interest-free period occurs when you pay off your credit card balance in full each month by the due date. From that point, you’ll have a certain number of days to make purchases where interest won’t be charged, if you make the next repayment in full before the due date. Interest-free periods on credit cards can be useful for a number of reasons. 
These include:
buying something to pay back later when you don’t have the funds immediately available 
protecting certain purchases under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
Keep in mind, you should always make sure you can afford to repay anything you spend on a credit card.
How do credit card interest-free periods work? 
When you buy something on a credit card, you're borrowing money that will need to be paid back within a certain time. This interest-free period can vary between lenders. Most cards generally give you up to 56 days to make a repayment before interest is applied, as standard. 
For example, if your credit card billing cycle is 31 days and you make a purchase on 1 October, you may have until 25 November to pay this money back without being charged interest. 
If you make a purchase on 10 October, or 25 October, this would fall into the same billing cycle and still need to be paid on 25 November. 
Always check the billing cycle of your credit card to ensure you don’t miss a repayment as these can vary between lenders.
Missed or late payments can incur a fee and negatively impact your credit score. 
Explore: How to avoid credit card charges
How can you avoid paying interest on a credit card? 
Paying off the full balance of your credit card when it’s due can help you avoid paying interest.
There may be the option to make minimum payments, but you should try to pay the full amount where possible. This is because anything left on your credit card, after you’ve made a minimum payment, may have interest applied. 
Paying off your credit card in full can also help you avoid building up debt. You may want to set up a Direct Debit or standing order so you don’t miss a repayment. 
Some transactions carry higher fees, which may apply even within the interest-free period on purchases. These can include:
withdrawing cash 
buying foreign currency 
buying gambling/betting chips 
Explore: Tips for paying off your credit card 
Credit is subject to status. Eligibility criteria apply.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is APR? 
How to use a balance transfer credit card 
How to avoid credit card charges\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/what-is-an-interest-free-period/
########Top of main content 
What is Help to Save? 
If you're on a low income, you might qualify for a government-backed scheme called Help to Save. 
It’s a type of savings account that gives a bonus of 50p for every £1 you save over 4 years.
Help to Save accounts are held by National Savings & Investments (NS&I) and bonuses are paid into nominated bank accounts.
The scheme is separate from any HSBC savings accounts you might hold.
Help to Save eligibility 
If you live in the UK, you can open a Help to Save account if one of the following applies:
you’re getting Working Tax Credit 
you’re entitled to Working Tax Credit and are getting Child Tax Credit 
you’re claiming Universal Credit and your household earned £722.45 or more from paid work in your last monthly assessment period 
If you live outside the UK, you can also apply for an account if you’re either of these:
a Crown servant or their spouse or civil partner 
a member of the British armed forces or their spouse or civil partner 
You and your partner can both apply for your own Help to Save accounts if you get payments as a couple. However, you’ll need to apply separately.
Even if you stop claiming benefits, you can still carry on using your Help to Save account.
How does Help to Save work? 
Each calendar month, you can save between £1 and £50. But you don’t have to pay money in every month.
You can make as many payments into your Help to Save account as you like, as long as you don’t go over £50 each calendar month. For example, if you’ve saved £50 by 15 June, you can’t pay in again until 1 July.
You can make these payments by debit card, standing order or bank transfer.
You can only move money out of your Help to Save account to your nominated bank account.
How bonuses work 
At the end of the 2nd and 4th years, you’ll get a bonus. This is based on how much you’ve saved.
After 2 years, the bonus is 50% of the highest balance in your account during the previous 2 years.
After 4 years, another bonus is paid. This time it's 50% of the difference between the highest balance during the first 2 years and the highest balance during the second 2 years.
For example, if you paid in £10 a month for the first 2 years and made no withdrawals, the amount in your Help to Save account would be £240 (£10 x 24 months). The bonus of 50% of the highest balance of £240 would be £120, paid into your nominated bank account. 
If over the next 2 years you carried on paying in £10 a month, that would bring the total amount in your Help to Save account to £480 (£10 x 48 months). The difference between the highest balance during the first 2 years and the second 2 years would be £240 (£480 minus £240) so the bonus after 4 years would be £120 (50% of £240).
Closing a Help to Save account 
Your Help to Save account will close 4 years after you open it. The money is then paid into your nominated account.
You can also close your account at any time. If you close your account early, you won’t get your next bonus. Once an account has been closed, you can’t reopen it, or open a new Help to Save account.
How a Help to Save account could affect your benefits 
Saving money through a Help to Save account might affect certain benefits.
Universal Credit 
There’s no impact on how much Universal Credit you get, as long as you or your partner have no more than £6,000 in personal savings. This includes your Help to Save account. Any Help to Save bonuses won’t affect your Universal Credit payments either.
If your savings are more than £6,000, anything above that amount is counted as monthly income of £4.35 for each £250 or part of £250. For example, if you have £6,250 in savings, £250 of that will be treated as monthly income so £4.35 will be taken off your Universal Credit payment.
Housing benefit 
There’s no impact on how much Housing Benefit you get, as long as you or your partner have no more than £6,000 in personal savings. This includes your Help to Save account. The same applies for savings above £6,000 as with Universal Credit.
Working Tax Credit 
Savings and bonuses you get from Help to Save won’t affect your Working Tax Credit payments.
How to apply for the Help to Save scheme 
You can apply online on the GOV.UK website GOV.UK website This link will open in a new window. You’ll need a Government Gateway user ID and password and you’ll need to give your UK bank details.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
How to start saving money 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is Universal Credit? 
What benefits can you claim? 
How to deal with rising living costs\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/what-is-help-to-save/
########Top of main content 
What is an unsecured loan? 
An unsecured loan – also called a personal loan – allows you to borrow a fixed amount, without needing an asset, such as your home, as collateral. 
Here we look at:
How does an unsecured loan work?
Types of unsecured lending
What are the benefits of unsecured loans?
Things to consider before taking out an unsecured loan
How does an unsecured loan work? 
When you take out an unsecured loan, you borrow money from a lender, such as a bank.
You’ll agree to make regular monthly repayments over a set period of time – until the loan (plus any interest owed) is repaid in full. 
You can typically borrow between £1,000 and £25,000 on an unsecured loan but different lenders may have different limits. 
When you apply, your creditworthiness and other factors will be considered. For example, a lender will decide if they’re willing to lend to you, how much, and at what interest rate, based on things like:
your income 
your credit score 
what you need the loan for 
It’s important to only borrow what you can afford to pay back, and make sure you can keep up with the repayments to avoid fees and charges. 
Types of unsecured lending 
Examples of unsecured lending include:
personal loans 
student loans 
credit cards 
overdrafts 
A personal loan can be helpful if you need to borrow money to renovate your home, buy a car, pay for a wedding or consolidate debts, for example. 
A credit card or overdraft may be more suitable for short-term borrowing. 
What are the benefits of unsecured loans? 
You don’t need an asset as collateral 
Unsecured loans are approved without the use of property or other assets as collateral. This means the lender can’t take away any of your assets, such as your home, if you fail to repay what you owe. 
Quick access to funds 
As a mortgage valuation isn’t required, applications for unsecured loans are completed faster than secured loans. So, you can make your plans a reality sooner.
You can expect to receive your loan money within 1 to 7 working days, depending on the bank and whether you have an account with them.
Flexibility 
You can choose how long you want to take to repay the loan. This is usually between 1 and 8 years, depending on how much you borrow. Many lenders also give you the option to top up your loan.
Things to consider before taking out an unsecured loan 
Interest rates tend to be higher 
Unsecured loans are typically seen as higher risk for a lender, compared to secured loans. Because a lender only has your creditworthiness and your word as a guarantee that you’ll repay the debt, interest rates tend to be higher than on secured loans. 
It’s difficult to get an unsecured loan with poor credit 
Your credit history is an important factor in a lender’s decision to accept an application. You’re more likely to get approved with a good credit score and more likely to get declined if you have a poor score. 
Explore: How to improve your credit score 
You’ll need to afford the loan repayments 
Any late or missed repayments can result in fees and charges, as well as negatively impact your credit score and your ability to borrow money in the future. Before you apply, make sure you can afford the repayments for the full term of the loan. 
Use our personal loan calculator to look at how much your repayments could be and how that may impact your budget.
Explore: How to manage your loan repayments
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Secured versus unsecured lending 
What to check before applying for a loan 
Tips to successfully apply for a loan\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/what-is-an-unsecured-loan/
########Top of main content 
What are secured and unsecured loans? 
A secured loan is money borrowed or ‘secured’ against an asset you own, such as your home, whereas an unsecured loan isn’t tied to an asset. 
Here, we explain what secured and unsecured lending means, and which type of loan may be right for you.
Secured loans explained 
Types of secured loans include:
mortgages to buy a property 
home loans, where you borrow money against your home equity 
Your home acts as a form of security for the lender, as they could repossess and sell the property if you fail to meet the loan repayments. For this reason, secured loans typically have lower interest rates than unsecured loans, and you may be able to borrow a larger amount.
The amount a lender is willing to offer you is based on several factors, including:
your income 
your credit score 
any other debts you have 
if you have any dependants 
The maximum amount you can borrow may also depend on your loan-to-value (LTV) ratio – the size of the loan as a proportion of the value of your home.
Unsecured loans explained 
Types of unsecured loans include:
personal loans 
credit cards 
overdrafts 
With unsecured loans, the lender can’t take away any of your assets, such as your home, if you fail to repay what you owe. However, any late or missed repayments can negatively impact your credit score and your ability to borrow money in the future.
A personal loan is a type of unsecured loan. They can be helpful if you need to borrow money to renovate your home, buy a car, pay for a wedding, or consolidate debts, for example. A credit card or overdraft may be more suitable for short-term borrowing. 
Interest rates vary between lenders and loan types. A lender will decide if they’re willing to lend to you, how much, and at what interest rate, based on things like:
your income 
credit score 
what you need the loan for 
Which type of loan is right for you? 
Whether your loan is secured or unsecured will sometimes depend on what you need the money for. For example, a mortgage is always a secured loan.
On the other hand, if you want to pay for a renovation, for example, you may have a choice between a secured loan, such as a home equity loan, or an unsecured loan, such as a home improvement loan. 
Unsecured loans can be handy when you want to borrow a relatively large amount without the risk of losing your home. However, missed payments can still impact your credit score. 
No matter what type of loan you apply for, you need to be able to meet the repayments and factor these into your budget. It’s also important to consider the terms and fees associated with the loan you want to take out. 
Explore: Ways to borrow
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is a joint loan? 
How do personal loans work? 
Loan application tips\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/secured-vs-unsecured-loans-explained/
########Top of main content 
How to save money as a teenager 
Saving money when you’re a teenager may feel like a challenge, but it doesn’t need to be. 
There are ways you can build up your savings to reach your goals, whether it’s to buy a new phone or save towards your first car. 
See our tips to get started.
1. Open a savings account 
A savings account gives you somewhere to keep the money you want to save – reducing the temptation to spend it.
Once you’ve opened an account, you may be able to add to it regularly. Some accounts have terms, which mean you can only contribute a certain amount each month, while others let you add to your savings as much as you want. It’s worth finding this out before you open a savings account, so you can find the type of account that will suit you. 
You may need a parent or guardian to help you open a savings account, and there’ll be some criteria you need to fulfil to be eligible. For example, with an HSBC MySaving account, you’ll need to be aged 7 to 17 and be able to deposit at least £10 into the account. If you’re under 16, you’ll need a parent or guardian with you to open the account.
Some savings accounts also have terms and conditions for withdrawing money. For HSBC savings accounts, T&Cs and eligibility criteria apply. Make sure you understand these when using your account.
2. Work out what you can save 
When you get money, whether it’s from a part-time job, a birthday gift, or pocket money, it can be tough to work out what to save and what to spend. It's totally up to you, but you could set yourself limits. For example, you may want to add 20% of your money to your savings and keep 80% for spending on things like your bus fare or lunch. Or perhaps you want to split it 50-50. The more you can save, the faster you’ll reach your goal.
3. Set a savings goal 
Setting a specific goal for your saving efforts can help you stay on track. Our savings goal calculator could help you see how much you need to save each month to achieve your target by a specific date. When setting a savings goal, make sure it's realistic so you don’t leave yourself short, or have to miss out on events with friends. 
To help keep your goal at the front of your mind and remove the temptation of dipping into your savings account, you could try writing it down and keeping it somewhere you can see. 
If there’s nothing in particular you want to save for, you could try setting yourself milestones to hit. For example, you could aim to save £50 and then increase this to £75 or £100 when you’ve hit your target. 
4. Make changes to your spending 
If you want to save more to reach your goal quicker, you could try tracking what you currently spend. A budget will show you where your money is going and where you may be able to cut back to save more. 
You could also round up your spending to the nearest pound and add that to your savings. Some apps can do this for you, so you don’t have to think about it. Making small changes like this can have a big impact on your savings over a couple of months.
5. Keep saving 
It may feel hard to get into the swing of saving money at first, but it’s important not to get disheartened if you forget to save one week or you save a bit less than usual. Putting away a small amount is still good and will add to your overall goal.
If you reach your target, whether it’s for a new item or a milestone, you don’t have to stop your savings efforts. You can carry on saving for another item on your list or aim to reach a new milestone. 
What next? 
If you have a part-time job, you may want to look at having your salary paid directly into your bank account.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
Next step 
How to get your salary paid into your account 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Teaching children and young people about money 
How to set - and achieve - savings goals 
Savings guide\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/how-to-save-money-as-a-teenager/
########Top of main content 
What is a secured loan? 
Secured loans include mortgages and home loans. They allow you to borrow or ‘secure’ money against an asset you own – usually property. 
Here we look at:
How do secured loans work?
What are the benefits of secured loans?
Things to consider before taking out a secured loan
How do secured loans work? 
With secured loans, the property itself serves as collateral. This means a lender can sell (repossess) your home if you’re unable to keep up with the repayments. 
Secured loans can be useful if you need to borrow a large sum of money. The interest rate is calculated as a percentage of the amount you owe – it may be fixed or variable depending on the type of loan you choose. 
A mortgage is always a secured loan – where you put down a deposit and borrow the remaining amount to help you buy a property. 
A home loan is another type of secured loan, which allows you to borrow money against the equity in your home. A home loan could be your only form of secured borrowing, or on top of an existing mortgage. You may consider taking out a home loan to help pay for a home extension, for example.
Some car loans can also be secured, where the vehicle will be used as security for the loan.
What are the benefits of secured loans? 
You can usually borrow a larger amount 
You can generally borrow more on a secured loan than an unsecured loan. 
Although the amount you’re able to borrow will depend on your individual circumstances, including:
your income 
your credit score 
any other debts you have 
The maximum amount you can borrow may also depend on your loan-to-value (LTV) ratio – the size of the loan as a proportion of the value of your home.
Our mortgage calculator can give you an idea of how much you could borrow based on your income.
Interest rates tend to be lower 
Typically, secured loans will offer a lower rate of interest than unsecured loans because the bank has the guarantee of the secured asset. However, factors such as the size of the loan, the equity you have in your property and your credit score can determine the interest rate a lender is willing to offer. 
Secured loans are less influenced by credit scores 
If you have a low credit score, some lenders may be more open to offering you a loan if it’s secured against your home, compared to an unsecured loan. However, if the lender believes you’ll struggle to keep up with the repayments, you may not be offered a loan. 
Before applying, it’s recommended that you check your credit report and improve your credit score as much as you can. A good credit score can improve your prospects of getting a mortgage and impact the types of deals you’re offered. 
Explore: 5 reasons to care about your credit score
Things to consider before taking out a secured loan 
You could lose your home if you’re unable to repay 
Any late or missed repayments can negatively impact your credit score and your ability to borrow money in the future. When the loan is secured against your property, you also run the risk of losing your home. 
When taking out a mortgage, it’s important to work out what you can comfortably afford, including any additional costs of owning a home. 
Use our mortgage repayment calculator to find out what your repayments might be, and how that may impact your monthly budget.
Some secured loans have variable interest rates 
A fixed-rate mortgage will mean your monthly payments should stay the same until an agreed date, no matter what happens to interest rates in the market. However, if you have a variable-rate mortgage, the interest rate can go up as well as down, meaning your repayments could increase or decrease.
Explore: What are the different types of mortgages?
Secured loans have longer repayment periods 
A mortgage is a long-term agreement. Although your monthly repayments on a secured loan could be lower than an unsecured loan, you might be paying it off for 25, 30 or even 35 years. This means you’ll pay more in interest overall. 
Think carefully about securing debts against your home. 
Your property may be repossessed if you don’t keep up the repayments. 
Did you find this article useful? 
Yes 
No 
Please tell us why. 
Too complicated 
Not enough information 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Secured versus unsecured lending 
Ways to help you get a mortgage 
What is negative equity?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/what-is-a-secured-loan/
########Top of main content 
Holiday Loan 
Make your dream trip a reality with a Holiday Loan 
Get closer to your dream getaway 
Whether it's next year’s holiday or a last minute break, a travel loan could see you jetting off to the sunshine by spreading the cost of your holiday payments.
Quick credit decision and instant access to funds (after signed loan agreement is received) for HSBC current account customers 
Make overpayments free of charge 
No arrangement fee 
Representative APR 
For loans between £7,000 and £15,0006.9% APR Representative
Holiday Loan calculator 
Use the sliders to adjust how much you'd like to borrow and over how many months.
We may be able to offer you a better rate if you change the amount you want to borrow or the length of time you borrow for. A small change can make a big difference to how much interest you'll pay and the overall cost of the loan. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances.
See full details of our Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB).Personal Loan interest rates (PDF, 47KB). This link will open in a new window
How much would you like to borrow?
Enter a value between 1,000 and 25,000
This is a How much would you like to borrow? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other.
GBP
7,000
APR6.9%
GBP 1,000
GBP 25,000
Over how many months?
Enter a value between 12 and 60
This is a Over how many months? fieldset consisting of an input field and slider and changing the value in one field will update the value in the other
APR6.9%
12 months
60 months
Representative example*
Total amount payable
GBP 8,255.40
Monthly repayment
GBP 137.59
Representative
6.9% APR
Interest rate p.a. fixed
6.9%
Who can apply?
Why get a Holiday Loan with us? 
Borrow from £1,000 to £25,000 
Always know what you'll have to pay with fixed monthly repayments spread over 1 to 5 years for loans of £15,000 or less, or over 1 to 8 years for loans over £15,000. 
Get a quick decision 
If you've got an HSBC current account you can get an instant credit decision, while non-HSBC current account customers should get a credit decision in 2 to 5 working days. 
Quick access to funds 
Existing HSBC current account customers could receive the money instantly once your application has been approved and the loan agreement has been signed. Non-HSBC current account customers could receive the money into a nominated account 3 working days after the signed loan agreement is received. 
Make overpayments free of charge 
Manage your finances the way you want with the flexibility to overpay, which could reduce the amount of interest you have to pay. 
Rate infomation 
6.9% APR representive. 
This rate is available for loans between £7,000 and £15,000.
*The rate is subject to change and the representative APR may not be the rate you'll receive. We'll offer you a rate based on our assessment of your personal financial circumstances. The maximum APR you could be offered is 22.9%.
The APR may vary based on amount borrowed. Please use the calculator or the loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB)loans interest rate table (PDF, 47KB) This link will open in a new window for more details.
Things to know 
You can apply for a Holiday Loan if you: 
You can apply if you:
are over 18 and a resident of the UK
have an annual UK taxable income or pension, before tax, of £10,000 or more
have a bank or building society account with a Direct Debit facility
Not available for customers with a Basic Bank Account.
For joint loan applications, please call us on 03457 404 404. Joint loans are not available online or in the HSBC Mobile Banking app.
Our loans are subject to status.
What you can't use your loan for 
We don't offer Personal Loans for a number of purposes including:
the purchase of property or land (both UK & Overseas) including holiday homes and apartments
purchasing a joint stake in a property or buying out a joint owner
mortgage deposit (regardless of lender or country)
gifting funds to third parties to support the purchase of a property, including mortgage deposit, stamp duty and solicitors fees
gambling
business purposes
sharedealing
Loan information 
Fixed repayment terms
spread your repayments over 1 to 5 years for Personal Loans of £15,000 and less
spread your repayments over 1 to 8 years for Personal Loans of over £15,000
the first repayment is due 1 month from drawdown
repayments will be taken monthly from your nominated current account
Lending consolidation considerations
If you're using any part of this loan to consolidate other lending (including combining these into a single loan), it's important to consider not just the interest rate and monthly repayments, but also the term of this loan compared to the remaining term of your existing loans or other lending.
Spreading your payments over a longer term means you could end up paying more overall than under your existing arrangements, even if the interest rate on this new loan is less than the rates you're currently paying.
You should also consider if any early repayment charges apply and if this form of borrowing is appropriate for your circumstances.
Interest
At the beginning of the loan we work out the interest you'll pay over the whole period of your loan and add this to your loan balance.
Early repayments
You can repay your loan in full at any time by giving us notice in writing, by visiting a branch or by calling us on 03457 404 404.
Once you've given us notice, we'll give you a settlement figure. It's necessary to pay all the amounts owed if you wish to close the loan.
If you make an early repayment there may be a reduction in the amount of interest you'll have to pay and this will be reflected in the settlement figure.
The settlement figure will include interest up to the date which is 28 days after you tell us you want to repay the loan, plus an additional month.
Responsible lending

If you think there might be a change in your circumsta\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/products/holiday-loan/
########Top of main content 
Saving tips: how time can mean money 
Time is money, or so the saying goes. But are there ways time can help you make money? Or can the way you time things help save you money? 
Here are 4 practical ways to use time to your advantage:
Pay yourself a daily wage 
Save a little, often 
Compound your interest 
Pay bills annually 
Pay yourself a daily wage 
One of the toughest parts of budgeting can be making your money last until the end of the month. So, what if you were to set yourself a daily wage? This could help you make it to payday without having to rely on an arranged overdraft or credit card.
How it works 
Draw up a monthly budget – using your last 3 months of earnings and spending – to help you estimate. Then set aside your money for your bills, rent/mortgage, and other necessities. 
For HSBC customers using our mobile app, you can use the Balance After Bills tool to do this. Based on your regular bills, it estimates what you'll owe for the month ahead. It then subtracts that amount from your current balance to show you what you could have left.
If you can, separate these amounts from your spending money by putting them into another account or pot as soon as you get paid. Remember, if you move the money for your bills into another account or pot, you’ll have to put that money back into your account when your bills are due. 
Divide the remaining amount by the number of days until you’re next paid (probably 30 or 31). 
Set yourself the target of only spending this much a day. 
If you’re managing your spending money between 2 different accounts, you can set up a standing order to pay that money in daily, so it’s done automatically. 
Example 
Say you have £900 left – after taking care of the core expenses listed above – this means you’d end up with £30 a day in a 30-day month. Every day, try to spend within that amount. There may be exceptions, like if you do a weekly shop but ideally, you’d account for that by spending less in the days before or shortly after.
This system isn’t for everyone, as it involves a fair bit of management. Ideally, you would transfer your daily wage from another account, or pot, each day to stop you from overspending. 
If you’re not able to do that, being aware of that daily amount can help guide your spending decisions and give you something to think about throughout the day.
Explore: How to make good spending decisions
Save a little, often 
If you've got a savings account but are finding saving difficult, you can take some steps to make it easier. The key to developing a habit is doing something often. So, you could try reducing the amount you’re aiming to save and increasing the frequency. Saving a little each day can start to add up – even starting with 1p can make a difference.
How it works 
Start by paying in 1p to your savings, then 2p the next day, 3p the next day, and so on. In 1 year, you’ll end up with £667.95 plus any interest you earn.
If you're an HSBC customer, you can do this through mobile or online banking. It should only take a few moments.
If doing this daily sounds like too much work, you could try doing the same thing weekly instead. Pick an amount that seems manageable, like 50p or £1, and then increase it by that amount each week. If you start with £1 and increase the amount you save by £1 each week, you’ll end up with £1,378 in a year.
Explore: Challenges to help you save money
Compound your interest 
Unless you’re a scientist, the word compound may not get you overly excited. But when it comes to saving money – it should. Or, at the very least, it could. 
Compound interest is interest earned on interest. So, the earlier you put money away, the more interest you could earn over time. It's one of the advantages of putting even a little amount away in a savings account.
How it works 
If you take £1,000, for example, and put it in a savings account with an annual interest rate of 1.5% AER / Gross, you’d earn: 
£15.10 in interest in the first full year 
£161.73 in interest by the end of year 10 
You can also keep adding to that amount to increase your savings (and the amount you earn in interest) over that time. For example, if you add £20 a month to that initial £1,000 deposit with an annual interest rate of 1.5% AER / Gross, you'd have:
£1,257.06 at the end of the first full year 
£3,752.57 at the end of year 10 
See more about compound interest.
Pay bills annually 
Some companies offer discounts if you pay your bills annually, in full – rather than in instalments. This might apply to car or home insurance, for example.
Paying large one-off bills at different points throughout the year is sometimes tricky, but it can save you money.
How it works 
Check if any of your suppliers offer this discount and make a list, noting down when your annual payments are due. 
Over the next few months, put money aside to help you pay these bills on time. 
Once you've paid each bill, save the money you had been paying monthly to cover next year’s payment. 
Put the money you save (by paying annually) into your savings account. 
Explore: How to manage bills
Definitions 
AER stands for Annual Equivalent Rate. This shows you what the gross rate would be if interest were paid and compounded each year.
Gross is the rate of interest paid before any tax (where applicable) has been deducted.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Explore HSBC savings accounts 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Saving vs investing 
How does inflation affect your savings? 
How to build an emergency fund\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/savings/saving-tips-how-time-can-mean-money/
########Top of main content 
Getting a loft conversion loan: what you need to know 
Converting your loft can give you more living space and add value to your home. But what should you keep in mind? 
Is your house suitable for a loft conversion? 
The main thing to consider is the size of the loft conversion. You don't want to end up with a room you can't stand up in, or one that’s too small to be used as a practical living space. 
Head height can be measured from the top of the floor joists in the loft, to the underside of the ridge beam (the highest point of your roof space). According to the Federation of Master Builders, this must be at least 2.2m – ideally 2.4m to be more comfortable. You also need enough space for a staircase up to the loft conversion.11 view footnote 1
How much does a loft conversion cost? 
Loft conversions vary in price. Ideally, ask for a few independent quotes before you begin any work. Things that influence costs include:
the size and shape of your loft 
the type of extension needed (increasing the amount of interior space is more expensive) 
the materials used (higher-quality finishes will cost more) 
where you live (London will be typically more expensive than the rest of the UK) 
whether you need planning permission 
Who should handle your loft conversion? 
A loft conversion is a big job, so it’s a good idea to go with an expert. Here are some of your options:
a specialist loft conversion company can offer you the complete package, from planning to painting and decorating 
an architect can draw up something unique and can usually help with regulations and finding builders 
a general builder can handle the process, but it's worth making sure they have experience 
Do loft conversions need planning permission? 
Usually, loft conversions within your existing roof space don't need planning permission, but always check. You may need planning permission if:
you live in a conservation area or other protected area 
you want to raise the height of your roof or extend out to the side 
your loft conversion is large (more than 40 cubic metres of space) 
you want clear glass side windows that will overlook your neighbours 
Building regulations for loft conversions 
All loft conversions need building regulation approval. Building regulations cover things like fire safety, structural strength, and insulation.
You'll need to make a building regulations application to a building control body (BCB) before you begin work, and may have to submit detailed plans.
A BCB can be your local authority or a private approved inspector who will tell your local authority about the work. Your builder or architect should help you through this process.
What to consider 
A loft conversion can be a lot of work, but it can potentially increase the value of a property.
Ideally, you’d be able to save the amount needed, so you don’t need to borrow. But if that isn't realistic, you could look at using a personal loan. 
You can use our home improvement loan calculator to get an estimate of what your repayments would be, based on the amount you want to borrow and how long you’d like to borrow for. 
Another option may be a home loan (a type of secured loan) where you borrow money against the equity in your home. However, you need to think carefully about securing debts against your home. Your property may be repossessed if you don’t keep up the repayments.
If you decide to go ahead with a loft conversation, it’s important to let your home insurance provider know. You want to make sure you have enough cover before any building work starts – just in case you need to make a claim.
Please remember... 
We are a bank, not DIY gurus. We provide this information as a helpful guide. However, if you're considering a loft conversion, please carry out your own research and don't assume these details are 100% correct or the most up-to-date available.
1Source: Federation of Master Builders (FMB) – Loft conversions: the ultimate guide Federation of Master Builders (FMB) – Loft conversions: the ultimate guide This link will open in a new window
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Potential value of a home renovation 
What is a personal loan? 
Loan application tips\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/getting-a-loft-conversion/
########Top of main content 
What is PCP car finance? 
Personal contract purchase (PCP) allows you to spread the cost of a new car across monthly payments, with the option to buy the car at the end of the term. 
Other car finance options include hire purchase (HP) agreements, leasing, or a personal car loan.
Please note – HSBC doesn’t offer PCP, HP, or leasing agreements.
How does PCP finance work? 
With PCP car finance, there are 3 different parts to paying for your new car:
the deposit 
your monthly repayments 
an optional final lump sum 
Like a hire purchase agreement, you pay a deposit of around 10% of the car’s value, followed by monthly payments for a fixed period. 
With PCP finance, you don’t take out a loan for the total cost of the car like you do with a hire purchase. Instead, you get a loan for the difference between its price brand new and the predicted value at the end of the loan agreement. Therefore, your monthly repayments can be lower than other types of car finance or loans.
The loan amount is agreed with the dealer at the start of the contract, along with any mileage limits you’ll need to stick to.
Newer cars will lose value more quickly than used cars, but it’s still possible to take out a PCP contract on a second-hand vehicle.
How does PCP work at the end of the term? 
You won’t own your car while you have a PCP finance contract. At the end of the term, you’ll have the option to buy it by making a final lump sum payment called a balloon payment. 
If you decide not to keep the car, you can give it back to the dealer (you don’t have to pay any more towards it) or you may consider taking out a new PCP deal on another car.
Can you change from PCP to HP? 
It may be possible to switch between the two types of car finance. However, you’ll need to be aware of any financial implications and check the details of your contract carefully.
There may be penalties for changing or ending your PCP car finance contract before the end of the term. 
Does PCP affect mortgage applications? 
As with all forms of credit, paying a PCP car finance agreement will be considered when lenders assess your affordability for a mortgage. It can also affect how much they’re willing to offer you. 
For example, lenders will consider your credit score to help decide whether to accept your mortgage application. It can show them how you manage your finances. They’ll also review your income and outgoings, including any debt commitments, to make sure you can afford the monthly repayments. 
A good credit score can improve your prospects of getting a mortgage, so you must keep on top of your PCP payments (any missed or late payments can negatively affect your credit score). And avoid borrowing more than you can afford to repay.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to finance a car 
How to manage your loan repayments 
A quick guide to electric vehicles\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/what-is-pcp-car-finance/
########Top of main content 
Why is home insurance important? 
Home insurance protects your home by making sure you’re covered, should something unexpected happen. And building insurance is often required if you want a mortgage. 
Without cover, you risk having to pay for replacements or repairs if something happens to your home or belongings. For example, if they're damaged in a fire or a flood or if your things are stolen.
Here, we look at the importance of having home insurance and things to consider. 
Benefits of home insurance 
1. Financial protection 
If your home was damaged or your possessions stolen, how would you meet the costs of repairs or replacements?
With household insurance in place, if anything happens to your property or possessions that are covered by your policy, you’ll be protected financially. 
2. Insurance for a mortgage 
Buildings insurance is often a requirement when you take out a mortgage. Your property is the mortgage lender’s security on the loan so, understandably, the lender will want to protect their financial interest by making sure the property is insured against damage. This may be due to fire, storms or subsidence.
Your mortgage provider will usually offer to sell you buildings insurance, but you can shop around for it.
3. Alternative accommodation 
Let’s hope it will never happen, but what if a fire destroyed your property? Or a flood caused widespread water damage? Where would you live if your house was uninhabitable?
Most home insurance policies will provide you and your family, including your domestic pets, with somewhere to stay if it’s unsafe to stay in your home.
4. Accidental damage cover 
It’s easy to spill wine on a new carpet or bang a nail through a pipe by mistake. If your home insurance policy includes accidental damage cover, it could pay out for replacements or to repair the damage. You can usually add on accidental damage cover if it isn’t included. 
5. New for old 
Most possessions will probably be worth less now than when you bought them – your five-year-old laptop, for example. But if something happened to them, you’d want to buy new versions. New for old cover allows exactly that. You get a new replacement if something old is lost or damaged. Not all policies include this type of cover so make sure you check. 
6. Home emergency cover 
If you have a burst pipe or a door that’s been broken in a burglary, you’ll want it fixed fast. Home emergency cover provides you with access to a trades person appointed by the insurance company, often via a 24-hour helpline. Home emergency cover is included in some insurance policies and can often be added on.
HSBC Home Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Exclusions and terms and conditions apply.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Home Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How much home insurance do you need? 
What insurance do you need with your mortgage? 
What is home emergency cover?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/why-home-insurance-is-important/
########Top of main content 
What is hire purchase? 
Hire purchase (HP) is a way of buying a car – typically brand new – on finance, where you own the vehicle once you make the final payment. 
How does hire purchase work? 
With hire purchase, you typically need to deposit about 10% of the car’s value. You then pay the remaining cost of the vehicle in monthly instalments, at a set interest rate over an agreed period. Once you’ve made the last payment, you own the car. 
Sometimes, you may need to pay an additional transfer fee at the end of the period. This differs from a car loan, where you buy the car outright and pay back what you owe to the lender.
With HP, the loan is secured against the car. So, if you can’t keep up with the repayments, you could lose the vehicle.
Please note – HSBC doesn’t offer HP, PCP, or leasing agreements.
What’s the difference between HP and PCP? 
HP and personal contract purchase (PCP) are both leasing options for financing a car. 
If you choose HP, you’ll own the car at the end of your finance agreement once you’ve finished making your loan repayments. However, with PCP, you’ll have 3 options: 
return the car 
pay a final balloon payment (the outstanding balance) to own the car 
trade in the car for a new PCP deal 
Can you pay off the hire purchase early? 
You can pay off your HP car early, but you must consider certain conditions. For example, there may be an additional fee alongside the outstanding cost of the vehicle to own it. 
The maximum amount you’ll pay includes the car’s outstanding cost (without any interest) and the lowest of these 3 amounts:
1% of the amount repaid early 
0.5% of the amount repaid early, if less than 12 months are left of the agreement period 
the remaining interest on the HP car 
So, if you’re paying off an outstanding balance of £10,000, you could also pay upwards of £50 (or 0.5%). There shouldn’t be additional fees if your early repayment amount is less than £8,000.
Can you change your car on hire purchase? 
You can’t ‘swap’ your HP car with another on the same finance arrangement. However, you can cancel your HP agreement early and take out another contract with a new vehicle. 
Voluntary termination 
If you’ve already paid half of the amount due (including interest), you could possibly return the HP car without further payments. You can then take out a new HP car agreement. 
Sell the vehicle 
You can sell the car at a dealership and use the proceeds to pay off the outstanding balance. If the sale price is more than the unpaid balance, you can use it as a deposit on a new HP car. If it’s lower, you’ll need to pay off the balance. 
Hire purchase is one way you can finance your car. If you’d prefer to own the vehicle car outright, saving up or taking out a personal loan may be more suitable.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to finance a car 
Things to consider when buying a used car 
How does leasing a car work?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/what-is-hire-purchase/
########Top of main content 
How does leasing a car work? 
Personal car leasing is an alternative way of getting a new vehicle if your budget won’t stretch to buying one outright. 
It works a bit like renting a car because you don’t ever own it. If you lease a vehicle from a dealership, you typically pay a deposit, followed by monthly payments for a set period. These monthly payments are usually lower than they would be with other types of car finance.
At the end of the lease, you return the car. 
Because leasing a car involves a financial contract, the provider may carry out a credit check to see how reliable you are at managing credit. 
It’s important to keep up the repayments on your car lease, as missed payments could negatively affect your credit score, making it harder to get credit in the future. Your car can also be repossessed. 
If you want to end your car lease before the term ends, there may be additional charges, such as an early termination fee. The exact details will depend on the terms of your lease. It could also mean paying back a proportion of the remaining amount due on the lease, so make sure you understand these charges before committing.
Please note – HSBC doesn’t offer personal car leasing. 
Should you lease or buy a car? 
Deciding whether to lease a car depends on many factors, including:
what you can comfortably afford 
if you can meet the repayments 
what type of car you want to buy 
New cars can be expensive and depreciate fast. If you don’t have enough to buy a new car outright, personal car leasing can offer the benefit of driving a newer model, without the high initial cost. It may be less of an issue if you’re buying a used car, as they tend to be cheaper than buying the same model new.
If you want to own the car in full at any point, you’ll need to buy it – using either savings or a car loan. With a lease, you never actually own the vehicle. 
If you’d rather have the flexibility to change your car regularly or keep up to date with newer models, then leasing cars might be a better option.
Advantages of leasing a car: 
you don’t need to worry about depreciation as it’s included in the monthly cost 
monthly payments are typically lower than other car finance options 
sometimes running costs, like road tax or servicing, are included in the cost 
no long-term commitments or responsibility for selling the vehicle 
flexibility to change your car every few years 
Disadvantages of leasing a car: 
you’ll never own the car 
ending the lease earlier can be expensive 
you’ll be charged extra for any damage 
you’ll need to stick within an annual mileage limit 
there might be restrictions on taking the car abroad 
getting a lease will require a good credit score 
Before you take out car finance or a leasing contract, work out what you can afford and factor in additional costs or charges you may need to pay.
What is a personal lease vehicle? 
There’s a wide range of cars you can lease. You can often specify the make, model, and other optional extras, like trims or colour. What you pay back each month for the lease will depend on things like:
the value of the car 
how long the car lease period lasts 
the annual mileage limit 
Most lease arrangements will have a limit on the number of miles you can put on the car. This is because the mileage will affect the car’s value at the end of the lease period. You agree on the limit at the start of the lease – it’s usually somewhere between 10,000 and 30,000 miles a year.
Can I lease a second-hand car? 
You can lease a car if it’s second-hand – just like you would with a new car. A used car is likely to have slightly cheaper monthly repayments, as its total value will be lower than the same model new. It can be a smart way to get a better deal.
You’ll still need to pay a deposit. You also won’t own the car when the lease ends. If you want to keep the car for longer than the lease period, you may want to consider a loan. The money you borrow would cover the total cost of the used car, so you own it outright. You then make repayments on the loan over an agreed period.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What is hire purchase? 
What is PCP car finance? 
A quick guide to electric vehicles\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/how-does-leasing-a-car-work/
########Top of main content 
Things to consider when buying a used car 
Buying a used car can be an affordable way to get on the road. You can even grab a bargain, but there are pitfalls to look out for. 
Here are some things to consider when buying a second hand car.
What's your budget? 
It’s worth sitting down and working out what you can afford and how you’ll pay for the vehicle. Keep in mind – you’ll need some spare money, to cover things like tax, insurance, fuel and repairs.
Explore: How to create a budget
How to buy a second hand car 
There are lots of ways you can buy a second hand car and which option you take will depend on your financial situation. You may want to consider:
Saving up first 
If you don’t need your car straight away, you may want to build up some savings. Even if it’s not the full amount, having some money saved up can help reduce how much you need to borrow. 
Looking into financing options 
There may be a few different financing options you could look into to pay for the car, such as a personal loan, hire purchase or leasing. 
If you’re looking to apply for finance to pay for a second hand car, it’s important that you consider the costs and can afford the repayments. 
Explore: Car financing options
Which car will work for you? 
Once you know how much you can afford to spend, look at what type of second hand car will suit your lifestyle. Questions to ask include:
What do you want to use the car for?
How much space do you need in the car?
Do you prefer manual or automatic?
You can use ads or vehicle listing sites to find the going rate for the car of your choice.
Who can you buy a used car from? 
You can buy a second hand car from a few places, including:
a manufacturer's dealer, independent garage or trader 
a private seller 
an auction 
online 
If you buy from a used car dealership, the car may come with a warranty that it’s fit for purpose. Make sure you read the fine print so you know what it covers.
How does the car look and drive? 
If you can, go and see the car in daylight, on a dry day – good light will help you spot any scratches or bumps. 
It’s also good to take the car out for a test drive. You’ll be able to see if it’s comfortable, how it handles and if it has any faults. Make sure you're insured to drive it before you take the wheel.
Several companies run car check services, which may be worth investigating. Some check the vehicle – including the engine, bodywork and tyres – while others check the outstanding finance, write-off status and more. 
Always check that the owner of the car has paid off any finance agreement. If they haven't, the finance provider could take the car.
Does the car have the right documents? 
When buying the car, the seller should be able to provide you with:
the original V5C document, also called the log book (it should have a DVLA watermark) 
the service history (check that the mileage matches up with the service record) 
MOT certificates 
a record of any repairs the car may have had 
the handbook 
You can use the DVLA's free online vehicle information tool to check the car's registration, MOT and tax expiry dates. 
It can also be a good idea to check the chassis number – known as a Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) – under the car bonnet. Make sure it matches the number shown in the log book and check that any registration numbers engraved on the windows match the vehicle's number plate.
Paying for your used car 
Before you hand over any money:
confirm exactly what's included in the price 
get the original log book and a valid MOT certificate (if these aren't available, don't buy the car) 
ideally, don't pay cash for a vehicle – always use a traceable method, such as a bank transfer and ask the seller to sign a receipt 
Disclaimer: please remember...
We're a bank, not a garage. We provide this information as a helpful guide. However, if you're thinking of buying a second hand car, please carry out your own searches and don't rely on the details on this page being 100% accurate or up to date.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Car Loan 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Financing a car 
A quick guide to electric vehicles 
Tips for a successful loan application\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/buying-a-second-hand-car/
########Top of main content 
How to compare home insurance policies 
When it comes to choosing home cover, value for money isn’t just about price. Here are 8 things to consider when comparing home insurance policies. 
What does the insurance policy include? 
What are the exclusions? 
What are the optional extras? 
Are you eligible? 
What is the insurance excess? 
Is there a cancellation fee? 
Is there a fee for making changes to a policy? 
Is there a fee for paying by Direct Debit? 
1. What does the insurance policy include? 
It may sound obvious, but you need to read an insurance policy carefully. The level and type of cover you have is just as important as the price. 
For example, you need to choose a buildings insurance policy that contains enough cover to rebuild your home from scratch. This is known as the ‘sum insured’. 
Other important features to look out for, include:
flexibility to tailor the cover to your needs 
alternative accommodation if damage means you can’t live in your home 
‘new for old’ cover, so you’ll get a new replacement if something old is lost or damaged 
If you take out contents insurance, it's important you don't underestimate how much your belongings are worth. Make sure you have the right cover for your needs.
Explore: How much home insurance do you need?
2. What are the exclusions? 
Exclusions are things you’re not insured for. 
For example, insurers typically do not cover for damage caused by pets. So, if you have a puppy who likes to chew furniture, you may not be able to claim this on your insurance. 
3. What are the optional extras? 
With some insurance policies, you can add extra cover that isn’t included in the standard policy. For example, products such as home emergency cover, or cover for items when you’re away from home, may be optional extras. 
4. Are you eligible? 
Insurers make a few assumptions to speed up searches. 
It’s important to make sure you fit the eligibility criteria, as this can affect the extent of your cover and your ability to make a claim. 
For example, insurers may assume your property isn't a holiday home or used for business purposes. If it is, you’ll need to mention this when you apply.
Keep in mind – insurance policies may also restrict or remove your buildings cover if your property is empty for a period of time, and you fail to notify them. 
You’ll also need to maintain your property for your buildings insurance to be valid. 
5. What is the insurance excess? 
If you need to make a claim, you may have to pay some money towards the overall cost. This is known as the insurance excess. It’s important to check how much the excess is. 
You may notice different excess amounts under one policy, such as £100 excess for accidental damage but a £1,000 excess for subsidence. 
This is because certain types of claims are likely to be expensive for the insurer. 
6. Is there a cancellation fee? 
Some insurers will charge you if a policy is cancelled outside the cooling-off period. But if you’re not happy with your current provider, you don’t have to stay with them. 
If you switch to HSBC Home Insurance, for example, we may be able to refund the cancellation fee charged by your previous insurer. 
7. Is there a fee for making changes to a policy? 
Hoping to add an expensive watch or an engagement ring to your contents insurance? 
Many insurance policies, including HSBC Home Insurance, allow you to adjust your cover to suit your needs, free of charge – but not all do. 
Some insurers charge an adjustment fee for any changes made before the policy term ends. 
8. Is there a fee for paying by Direct Debit? 
It’s not always easy to pay for an insurance policy as an annual lump sum. Many people choose to pay monthly to break the cost down into manageable payments. Some insurers, however, will charge for this. 
If you want to pay monthly, you’ll need to factor in any additional charges when comparing different insurance policies. 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC Home Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
What to consider when buying insurance 
How to save money on your home insurance 
What insurance do you need with your mortgage?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/how-to-compare-home-insurance-policies/
########Top of main content 
[Start investing] 5 Tips to Handle Market Volatility 
30 Nov 2021
Introduction 
In today’s digitally connected world, short-term market volatility can be more prevalent thanks to the immense amount of information at one’s fingertips. When dramatic sell-offs happen, it can be upsetting especially in the face of sensational headlines and negative media coverage, often challenging investors’ commitments to their long-term investment plans. 
Now that we are arguably in the later stage of the business cycle, further periods of volatility may lie ahead. While there is no fool-proof method to navigate market ups and downs, the following tips can help. 
1 . Keep calm 
Short-term volatility is part and parcel of the investment journey
Markets can fluctuate depending on the news flow or expectations on valuations and corporate earnings. It is important to remember that volatility is to be expected from time to time in financial markets.
History does not necessarily repeat itself, but it does rhyme. Short-term volatility can occur at any time, but they do not necessarily derail the long-term growth in stock markets. Historically, significant recoveries occur following major setbacks including economic downturns and geopolitical events (Chart 1).
While headline-grabbing news can affect short-term market sentiment and lead to reductions in asset valuations, share prices should ultimately be driven by fundamentals over the long run. Therefore, investors should avoid panic selling during volatile periods, to avoid missing out on any potential market recovery.
Chart 1: Returns from $10,000 invested in global stocks over the last 2 decades
2 . Remain invested 
Long-term investing increases the chance of positive returns
When markets get rocky, it is tempting to exit the market to avoid further losses. However, those who focus on short-term market volatility may end up buying high and selling low. History has shown that financial markets go up in the long run despite short-term fluctuations (Chart 2).
Though markets do not always follow the same recovery paths, periods after corrections are often critical times to be exposed to the markets. Staying invested for longer periods tends to offer higher return potential.
Chart 2: The performance range of global equities over different time frames
3 . Stay diversified 
Diversification can help achieve a smoother ride
Diversification basically means ‘don’t put all your eggs in one basket’. Different asset classes often perform differently under various market conditions (Chart 3).
By combining assets with different characteristics, the risks and performance of different investments are combined, thus lowering overall portfolio risk. That means, a lower return in one type of asset may be compensated by a gain in another.
Chart 3: The performance of each asset class varies over time
4 . Take advantage 
Market downturns may create opportunities
Don’t be passive in the face of market declines. When market sentiment is low, valuations tend to be driven down which provides investment opportunities (Chart 4). In rising markets, people tend to invest as they chase returns, while in declining markets people tend to sell. When investors overreact to market conditions, they may miss out some of the best-performing days.
Though no one can predict market movements, the times when ‘everyone’ is overwhelmingly negative often turns out to be the best times to invest.
Chart 4: Global equities trade cheaper during economic crises
5 . Invest regularly 
Despite volatility
Investing regularly means continuous investment regardless of what is happening in the markets.
When investors make fixed regular investments, they buy more units when prices are low and less when prices are high. This will smooth out the investment journey and average out the price at which units are bought (Chart 5). It thus reduces the risk of investing a lump sum at the wrong time, particularly amid market volatility.
The longer the time frame for investment the better, because it allows more time for investments to grow (the compounding effect).
Chart 5: Dollar-cost averaging helps smooth the effects of market movements
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
[Start investing] Behavioural Finance: How not to be your own biggest enemy! 
Despite being one of the smartest species on the planet, human beings aren’t always rational with their...[16 Jul] 
[Start investing] What is an index fund 
Index funds offer investors a simple, low cost way to invest in a range of assets...[16 Aug] 
[Start investing] Quality bonds as a diversifier amid market downturn 
Some people find bonds ‘boring’ because you don’t often hear much about them in the news...[25 Nov] 
[Start investing] Why choose global investment grade corporate bonds over cash or short-term investment? 
Following successive rate hikes by major central banks during 2022 and H1 2023, deposit rates in many...[30 Jun] 
Disclaimer 
This document or video is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document or video is distributed and/or made available by HSBC Bank Canada (including one or more of its subsidiaries HSBC Investment Funds (Canada) Inc. (“HIFC”), HSBC Private Investment Counsel (Canada) Inc. (“HPIC”) and HSBC InvestDirect division of HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc. (“HIDC”)), HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HSBC Continental Europe, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited (UAE), HSBC UK Bank Plc, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (198401015221 (127776-V))/HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (20080100642 1 (807705-X)), HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch, HSBC Bank plc, Guernsey Branch, HSBC Bank plc in the Isle of Man, HSBC Continental Europe, Greece, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India (HSBC India), HSBC Bank (Vietn\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/start-investing/5-tips-to-handle-market-volatility/
########Top of main content 
How to choose the right motor breakdown insurance 
If your vehicle breaks down, motor breakdown cover can help get you on your way. 
What is breakdown cover? 
Breakdown insurance, or breakdown cover, can give you peace of mind that you’ll be able to get help if your vehicle breaks down. For example, if your car breaks down on the motorway or it just won’t start in the morning – you can get it fixed or towed to the nearest garage.
What are the different levels of motor breakdown cover? 
There are several levels of cover to choose from, including roadside assistance and home cover. Here are a few of the most common ones you’ll come across:
Roadside assistance 
If you’ve broken down on the side of the road, a breakdown van would come and fix your vehicle, or tow you to a local garage. This is usually the most basic level of cover.
There may be limits to this level of cover. For example, if you break down within a certain distance from your home address, you may not be covered for roadside or breakdown assistance. 
Home cover 
Home cover, or home start, will include roadside assistance, but will also cover you if you can’t get your vehicle started at, or close, to home. 
National recovery 
If you have national recovery, you’ll get roadside assistance and, if your vehicle can’t be fixed, it’ll be towed to your destination, or a garage close to your destination. 
European recovery 
European recovery will cover you for travel across the EU. Before you travel, you’ll need to ask your insurer for a green card green card This link will open in a new window as proof that you have vehicle insurance when driving abroad.
Other things to consider 
You may also need to choose between personal cover, or cover for a specific vehicle. 
If you regularly drive different vehicles, personal cover may be more suited to your needs, as it would cover you for whatever vehicle you’re in – even as a passenger. If you’re only likely to drive your own car, specific vehicle cover may be more appropriate.
Always make sure to read the terms and conditions of the level of cover you choose. 
Ways to buy motor breakdown insurance 
HSBC doesn’t offer breakdown insurance, but you can typically buy suitable cover through: 
A standalone policy 
There are dedicated breakdown providers that you can buy cover from. Prices and level of cover vary, so it can pay to shop around to find the best level of cover for your needs. 
Depending on the provider, you may be able to add additional extras – such as wrong fuel or battery replacement – to your policy. 
Your existing policy 
Some car insurance providers may let you add on breakdown cover to your car insurance policy. There may be an additional charge, and you’ll need to be sure the level of cover suits your needs.
Some banks may also offer packaged current accounts where you can get things like breakdown cover included. There may be a fee for taking out this type of account. Again, you’ll need to make sure this meets your needs and is worth the additional cost.
A multi-cover policy 
If your household has multiple cars, it can be a worthwhile to check whether you are already covered. For example, your family or those you live with may have taken out a joint, family, or multi-vehicle breakdown policy.
Keep in mind – multi-car breakdown cover comes with some exclusions. For example, you may not be covered if your car is used for business purposes, so it’s important to check.
New car purchases 
If you have a new car, you may automatically have breakdown cover from your manufacturer, although the length of cover and what’s included differs between companies. 
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
A guide to electric vehicles 
What to consider when buying insurance 
What is insurance excess?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/motor-breakdown-insurance/
########Top of main content 
Do you need home insurance? 
Home insurance isn’t a legal requirement but it can give you peace of mind knowing you can financially protect your property and belongings. 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript Download transcript This link will open in a new window 
Buildings insurance (a type of home insurance) protects you against the cost of repairing or rebuilding your home from scratch, should it get damaged. This could be due to fire, flood or subsidence. 
Most lenders require you to have buildings insurance when you get a mortgage. 
If you buy a leasehold flat, the building might be insured by the landlord who owns the freehold. Your solicitor will advise if you need to take out buildings insurance as part of your lease.
You should also consider contents insurance to protect your belongings. These can be purchased separately or together under the same policy.
What does buildings insurance cover? 
Buildings insurance typically covers: 
the structure of the building (bricks and mortar) 
permanent fixtures and fittings such as kitchens, baths and built-in cupboards 
outside buildings such as garages, greenhouses and garden sheds 
Buildings insurance may not cover:
boundary walls, fences, gates and paths 
damage caused by general wear and tear 
legal expenses for property-related disputes (unless you’ve taken out additional cover) 
As an optional extra, you may want to consider home emergency cover. You may be able to buy this as an add-on to your buildings insurance or as a separate policy.
Do you need home insurance when renting? 
If you’re renting, you don’t need to worry about buildings insurance, as this is your landlord’s responsibility. But you should consider contents insurance to help cover the costs of replacing possessions if something happens to them.
What does contents insurance cover? 
Contents insurance, sometimes known as renter’s insurance, typically covers:
items in your home that you’d take with you if you moved, such as furniture and white goods 
carpets and curtains 
garden equipment 
Contents insurance may not cover: 
wear and tear 
accidental damage 
You can usually get additions to your policy to cover items you take outside your home, such as laptops, jewellery, and mobile phones.
HSBC Home Insurance is provided by Aviva Insurance Limited. Exclusions and terms and conditions apply.
Back to top 
What next? 
HSBC Home Insurance 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How much home insurance do you need? 
Why is home insurance important? 
What to consider when buying insurance\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/insurance/do-you-need-home-insurance/
########Top of main content 
[Start investing] “Time in”, but not “timing the market” 
27 Feb 2023
Most investors want to time the market in the hope that they can buy low and sell high to maximise investment returns. However, in reality, nobody can predict the best time to invest. While history can’t tell you when these periods will occur, it does show that financial markets eventually recover from even the most turbulent times. The ability to ride out short-term fluctuations and stay invested for the longer term tends to bring positive returns over time.
Investors who try to time the market aim to outperform by looking for the lowest or highest point in the market cycle. On the other hand, those who spend “time in the market” are investors who focus on the fundamentals of the investment and hold it for the longer term. If you prefer investing to speculating, you should avoid trying to time the market!
Time in, not timing: the power of compounding 
Chart 1 shows what happened to $1,000 invested in global stocks at the monthly low or high, every month since January 2004. Whether investing at the monthly low or high, it does not create a significant difference in the end value.
In Chart 2, the black line represents an investor who waited for a big market drop before starting to invest. Even though this investor had impeccable timing to not only invest at the market’s monthly low, but started investing during a market crash when asset values were particularly low, the outcome was much worse. Starting earlier (red line) meant that investing $48,000 more over this time created an extra $135,000 in the end value, leveraging the power of compounding.
If your aim is to grow your savings over the long term, starting to invest sooner, rather than later, is usually more important than whether you are investing at low or high points in financial markets. The longer the investment period, the greater the compounding or snowball effect. Reinvesting your earnings allows your original investment to continue growing along with the money generated by your investment.
Moreover, in trying to time the market, you run the risk of missing out on some of the best performing days. Even missing just a few of those best performing days can result in a big difference in your return.
Chart 3 shows $100,000 invested in stocks since 2005. Missing the top 20 days reduced the end investment value from around $350,000 to $120,000.
If you are nervous about investing a lump sum, you can split the amount and make regular investments. Regular investing helps smooth out the effects and fear of market movements. More shares are purchased when prices are lower, and less shares are purchased when prices are higher. This approach can help you stay with an investment plan by reducing the impact of short-term market movements on your portfolio.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
[Start investing] What is an index fund 
Index funds offer investors a simple, low cost way to invest in a range of assets...[16 Aug] 
[Start investing] Behavioural Finance: How not to be your own biggest enemy! 
Despite being one of the smartest species on the planet, human beings aren’t always rational with their...[16 Jul] 
[Start investing] Why choose global investment grade corporate bonds over cash or short-term investment? 
Following successive rate hikes by major central banks during 2022 and H1 2023, deposit rates in many...[30 Jun] 
[Start investing] 5 Tips to Handle Market Volatility 
In today’s digitally connected world, short-term....[11 Feb] 
Disclaimer 
This document or video is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document or video is distributed and/or made available by HSBC Bank Canada (including one or more of its subsidiaries HSBC Investment Funds (Canada) Inc. (“HIFC”), HSBC Private Investment Counsel (Canada) Inc. (“HPIC”) and HSBC InvestDirect division of HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc. (“HIDC”)), HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HSBC Continental Europe, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited (UAE), HSBC UK Bank Plc, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (198401015221 (127776-V))/HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (20080100642 1 (807705-X)), HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch, HSBC Bank plc, Guernsey Branch, HSBC Bank plc in the Isle of Man, HSBC Continental Europe, Greece, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India (HSBC India), HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Limited, PT Bank HSBC Indonesia (HBID), HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A. (HSBC Uruguay is authorised and oversought by Banco Central del Uruguay), HBAP Sri Lanka Branch, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited – Philippine Branch, and HSBC FinTech Services (Shanghai) Company Limited (collectively, the “Distributors”) to their respective clients. This document or video is for general circulation and information purposes only.
The contents of this document or video may not be reproduced or further distributed to any person or entity, whether in whole or in part, for any purpose. This document or video must not be distributed in any jurisdiction where its distribution is unlawful. All non-authorised reproduction or use of this document or video will be the responsibility of the user and may lead to legal proceedings. The material contained in this document or video is for general information purposes only and does not constitute investment research or advice or a recommendation to buy or sell investments. Some of the statements contained in this document or video may be considered forward looking statements which provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or events and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those described in such forward-looking stateme\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/start-investing/2023-02-27/
########Top of main content 
[Start investing] FX tips 
23 Jan 2019
Key takeaways 
Most of us need foreign exchange at one time or another, but the FX market can be highly unpredictable 
HSBC offers a full suite of FX insights to help you make informed investment decisions 
4 tips on how to make foreign exchange work for you 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
[Start investing] Quality bonds as a diversifier amid market downturn 
Some people find bonds ‘boring’ because you don’t often hear much about them in the news...[25 Nov] 
[Start investing] What is an index fund 
Index funds offer investors a simple, low cost way to invest in a range of assets...[16 Aug] 
[Start investing] Behavioural Finance: How not to be your own biggest enemy! 
Despite being one of the smartest species on the planet, human beings aren’t always rational with their...[16 Jul] 
[Start investing] Why choose global investment grade corporate bonds over cash or short-term investment? 
Following successive rate hikes by major central banks during 2022 and H1 2023, deposit rates in many...[30 Jun] 
Disclaimer 
This document or video is prepared by The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited (‘HBAP’), 1 Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong. HBAP is incorporated in Hong Kong and is part of the HSBC Group. This document or video is distributed and/or made available by HSBC Bank Canada (including one or more of its subsidiaries HSBC Investment Funds (Canada) Inc. (“HIFC”), HSBC Private Investment Counsel (Canada) Inc. (“HPIC”) and HSBC InvestDirect division of HSBC Securities (Canada) Inc. (“HIDC”)), HSBC Bank (China) Company Limited, HSBC Continental Europe, HBAP, HSBC Bank (Singapore) Limited, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited (UAE), HSBC UK Bank Plc, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad (198401015221 (127776-V))/HSBC Amanah Malaysia Berhad (20080100642 1 (807705-X)), HSBC Bank (Taiwan) Limited, HSBC Bank plc, Jersey Branch, HSBC Bank plc, Guernsey Branch, HSBC Bank plc in the Isle of Man, HSBC Continental Europe, Greece, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, India (HSBC India), HSBC Bank (Vietnam) Limited, PT Bank HSBC Indonesia (HBID), HSBC Bank (Uruguay) S.A. (HSBC Uruguay is authorised and oversought by Banco Central del Uruguay), HBAP Sri Lanka Branch, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited – Philippine Branch, and HSBC FinTech Services (Shanghai) Company Limited (collectively, the “Distributors”) to their respective clients. This document or video is for general circulation and information purposes only.
The contents of this document or video may not be reproduced or further distributed to any person or entity, whether in whole or in part, for any purpose. This document or video must not be distributed in any jurisdiction where its distribution is unlawful. All non-authorised reproduction or use of this document or video will be the responsibility of the user and may lead to legal proceedings. The material contained in this document or video is for general information purposes only and does not constitute investment research or advice or a recommendation to buy or sell investments. Some of the statements contained in this document or video may be considered forward looking statements which provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance or events and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those described in such forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. HBAP and the Distributors do not undertake any obligation to update the forward-looking statements contained herein, or to update the reasons why actual results could differ from those projected in the forward-looking statements. This document or video has no contractual value and is not by any means intended as a solicitation, nor a recommendation for the purchase or sale of any financial instrument in any jurisdiction in which such an offer is not lawful. The views and opinions expressed are based on the HSBC Global Investment Committee at the time of preparation, and are subject to change at any time. These views may not necessarily indicate HSBC Asset Management‘s current portfolios’ composition. Individual portfolios managed by HSBC Asset Management primarily reflect individual clients’ objectives, risk preferences, time horizon, and market liquidity.
The value of investments and the income from them can go down as well as up and investors may not get back the amount originally invested. Past performance contained in this document or video is not a reliable indicator of future performance whilst any forecasts, projections and simulations contained herein should not be relied upon as an indication of future results. Where overseas investments are held the rate of currency exchange may cause the value of such investments to go down as well as up. Investments in emerging markets are by their nature higher risk and potentially more volatile than those inherent in some established markets. Economies in emerging markets generally are heavily dependent upon international trade and, accordingly, have been and may continue to be affected adversely by trade barriers, exchange controls, managed adjustments in relative currency values and other protectionist measures imposed or negotiated by the countries with which they trade. These economies also have been and may continue to be affected adversely by economic conditions in the countries in which they trade. Investments are subject to market risks, \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/learn-to-invest/start-investing/2019-01-23/
########Top of main content 
FX Viewpoint: JPY and CAD: Sideways, followed by modest strength 
29 Jan 2024
Key takeaways 
On 23 January, the BoJ stayed on hold, continuing to expect core inflation to fall below 2% in FY2025. 
A day later, the BoC held its policy rate steady, with debates shifting toward how long to leave the rates unchanged. 
Both JPY and CAD are likely to move sideways over the near term, before recovering later this year, in our view. 
On 23 January, the BoJ stayed on hold, continuing to expect core inflation to fall below 2% in FY2025 
The Bank of Japan’s (BoJ) decision at its first policy meeting in 2024 was in line with market expectations, which the short-term policy rate was left at -0.1% and the yield curve control (YCC) framework was maintained. There were also no major changes in the BoJ’s forecasts. The BoJ stressed that the downgrade of the FY2024 core inflation median forecast (from 2.8% to 2.4%) was due to the change in oil prices, while the forecast for FY2025 was kept mostly unchanged (from 1.7% to 1.8%). On growth, the BoJ remained optimistic, continuing to expect abovepotential growth through the forecast horizon. After the announcement, USDJPY moved largely sideways and is likely to consolidate over the near term.
USD-JPY continues to track its rate differentials which are expected to decline in 2024 
USD-JPY has been focusing on its rate differentials, with the JPY depreciating about 30% against the USD during the Federal Reserve’s (Fed) rate hike cycle (Chart 1).Our economists expect the BoJ to end its ultra-loose policy this year, with a formal YCC removal in March, followed by an exit from negative interest rate policy in 2Q24. At the same time, the Fed is expected to start its easing cycle this year. With narrower rate differentials in horizon, we believe the JPY will stage a modest recovery against the USD this year (please refer to JPY: A modest recovery in 2024 for details).
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
We expect the CAD to consolidate in the near term,before strengthening modestly against the USD later in the year 
Unlike the JPY’s story, much of the story around the CAD is similar to that for the USD, from rates’ perspective. Our economists expect rate cut cycles for both the Bank of Canada (BoC) and the Fed to begin in June. At the 24 January meeting,the BoC left its policy rate unchanged at 5%, while discussions have shifted toward how long the policy rate needs to stay at the current level, indicating that the BoC is walking slowly towards a policy pivot. Lower US bond yields could pull USD-CAD down through both rates and risk-appetite channels. But in case of near-term risk aversion, there is still some buffer for the CAD, as USD-CAD looks elevated relative to risk appetite (using global equities as proxy, Chart 2).
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
FX Viewpoint Flash: USD: Fed Chair Powell talks down the prospect of a March cut 
The FOMC held rates steady for a fourth straight meeting, as widely expected, showing that...[2 Feb] 
FX Trends: Markets to realise a shallower easing path 
Market thoughts of a shallower global easing cycle should support the ‘safe-haven’ USD…[19 Jan] 
Disclosure appendix 
Important disclosures
This document is for information purposes only and it should not be regarded as an offer to sell or as a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or other investment products mentioned in it and/or to participate in any trading strategy. Information in this document is general and should not be construed as personal advice, given it has been prepared without taking account of the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular investor. Accordingly, investors should, before acting on it, consider the appropriateness of the information, having regard to their objectives, financial situation and needs. If necessary, seek professional investment and tax advice.
Certain investment products mentioned in this document may not be eligible for sale in some states or countries, and they may not be suitable for all types of investors. Investors should consult with their HSBC representative regarding the suitability of the investment products mentioned in this document and take into account their specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs before making a commitment to purchase investment products.
The value of and the income produced by the investment products mentioned in this document may fluctuate, so that an investor may get back less than originally invested. Certain high-volatility investments can be subject to sudden and large falls in value.
that could equal or exceed the amount invested. Value and income from investment products may be adversely affected by exchange rates, interest rates, or other factors. Past performance of a particular investment product is not indicative of future results.
HSBC and its affiliates will from time to time sell to and buy from customers the securities/instruments (including derivatives) of companies covered in HSBC Research on a principal or agency basis.
Whether, or in what time frame, an update of this analysis will be published is not determined in advance.
Additional disclosures
1. This report is dated as at 26 January 2024.
2. All market data included in this report are dated as at close 25 January 2024, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report.
3. HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research business. HSBC's analysts and its other staff who are involved in the preparation and dissemination of Research operate and have a management reporting line independent of HSBC's Investment Banking business. Information Barrier procedures are in place between the Investment Banking, Principal Trading, and Research businesses to ensure that any confidential and/or price sensitive informati\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/fx-insights/fx-viewpoint/2024-01-29/
########Top of main content 
FX Viewpoint: USD: A strong start to the year 
22 Jan 2024
Key takeaways 
A strong start to the year for the USD is set to continue… 
probably supported by both risk aversion and somewhat higher yields… 
...but not every currency is set to weaken against the USD;the JPY and CAD are likely to stabilise in the weeks ahead. 
A shallower easing path should support the USD via both risk aversion and rates channels 
Risk appetite remains the key FX driver, but the near-term path for risk appetite is mostly determined by the outlook for monetary policy, not just in the US, but globally.Current market pricing suggests a ‘co-ordinated easing’ in the US, the Eurozone, and the UK during 2024, with at least 100bp of rate cuts (Chart 1),which is distant from central bank guidance, in terms of both the timing and scale. As a result, if and when markets recognise that the path of global easing is likely to be shallower, this should weigh on risk appetite, thereby supporting the ‘safe haven’ USD, in our view. Paring back rate cut expectations will also provide support for the USD through somewhat higher yields.
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
Note: Data was updated on 18 January 2024 at 17:45 HKT. Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
We expect the USD to strengthen against the EUR,GBP, and some risk-on currencies over the near term… 
Indeed, the likelihood of market repricing of a less aggressive global easing path has seen the USD outperform in the G10 space so far this year (Chart 2). As the gap between market pricing and central bank guidance remains wide, we expect this USD strength to continue over the near term, notably against the EUR and GBP, in addition to the risk-on currencies, like the AUD and NZD. Geopolitical risks will also carry scope to add further momentum to recent market moves. Beyond these global headwinds, the EUR and GBP also faces domestic economic challenges, for which a ‘high for longer’ rate outlook seems unlikely to offer sustained support for these currencies.
…but the JPY and CAD are likely to consolidate in the weeks ahead 
However, not every currency is set to weaken against the USD over the near term.For example, the JPY has been the worst-performing G10 currency year-to-date (Chart 2), but we look for a near-term consolidation, followed by a medium-term modest recovery (please refer to “JPY: A modest recovery in 2024” for details). We think that any hint from the Bank of Japan (BoJ) about approaching an end to its ultra-loose monetary policy could provide disproportionate support for the JPY after recent weakness. The CAD may stabilise against the USD, as its weakness so far in 2024 looks overdone, relative to rate differentials and risk appetite.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
FX Viewpoint: USD: Not run out of the gas yet 
Loosening global financial conditions and buoyant risk appetite have seen a sharp move...[15 Jan] 
FX Viewpoint Flash: Gold soars but pitfalls lie ahead 
The price of gold hit a new high in December 2023 and has remained well above USD2,000 per...[11 Jan] 
FX Viewpoint: JPY: A modest recovery in 2024 
After three consecutive years of weakness, the JPY is set to recover this year, albeit…[8 Jan] 
${after-trio-of-rate-holds-usd-on-the-defensive:editorialBodyTitle} 
${after-trio-of-rate-holds-usd-on-the-defensive:editorialBodyShortDescription} 
Disclosure appendix 
Important disclosures
This document is for information purposes only and it should not be regarded as an offer to sell or as a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or other investment products mentioned in it and/or to participate in any trading strategy. Information in this document is general and should not be construed as personal advice, given it has been prepared without taking account of the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular investor. Accordingly, investors should, before acting on it, consider the appropriateness of the information, having regard to their objectives, financial situation and needs. If necessary, seek professional investment and tax advice.
Certain investment products mentioned in this document may not be eligible for sale in some states or countries, and they may not be suitable for all types of investors. Investors should consult with their HSBC representative regarding the suitability of the investment products mentioned in this document and take into account their specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs before making a commitment to purchase investment products.
The value of and the income produced by the investment products mentioned in this document may fluctuate, so that an investor may get back less than originally invested. Certain high-volatility investments can be subject to sudden and large falls in value.
that could equal or exceed the amount invested. Value and income from investment products may be adversely affected by exchange rates, interest rates, or other factors. Past performance of a particular investment product is not indicative of future results.
HSBC and its affiliates will from time to time sell to and buy from customers the securities/instruments (including derivatives) of companies covered in HSBC Research on a principal or agency basis.
Whether, or in what time frame, an update of this analysis will be published is not determined in advance.
Additional disclosures
1. This report is dated as at 19 January 2024.
2. All market data included in this report are dated as at close 18 January 2024, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report.
3. HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research business. HSBC's analysts and its other staff who are involved in the preparation and dissemination of Research operate and have a management reporting line independent of HSBC's Investment Banking business. Information Barrier procedures are in\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/fx-insights/fx-viewpoint/2024-01-22/
########Top of main content 
Romance fraud case: how one woman was conned out of £100,000 
Dating fraud is all too common. Criminals create fake profiles on websites, apps and social media to target those looking for love online. 
Here’s the story of one HSBC customer who fell victim to a romance scam. The details are fictitious but are based on a genuine case. All the names, locations and other aspects have been changed to protect the anonymity of those involved.
Two years after her husband died, Marjorie decided to start using a dating website for the first time. 
It was a service aimed at the over 50s, with a focus on those who’d been widowed. 
She soon struck up an online conversation with a man called Gerald and they quickly hit it off. 
"Most communication was through WhatsApp, although we also spoke over the phone," said Marjorie. 
Gerald claimed to be from Milton Keynes and told her he owned his own electrical business. He explained he was away in Dubai working on a major project at a shopping mall, so they weren’t able to meet. In fact, they never met face to face.
'Cash flow problems' 
Marjorie recalls: "Towards the end of February, he began to mention that he was having cash flow problems with his business. He said he needed a short-term loan of funds to finish the project."
He told her he would repay her when the project was complete at the beginning of April.
This is when alarm bells should have started to ring. You should never send money to someone you've only met online.
Gerald sent Marjorie a copy of his passport, shipping documents and a link to a website showing his company Gerald Symonds Electrical. 
"He also sent an image of a cheque for £2 million, which he said was due to him on completion of the project," said Marjorie.
These all turned out to be fake.
Bank transfers 
Marjorie began by making payments from an account she held with another bank. In total, she transferred £54,000 from that account. 
Then she started to make payments from her HSBC UK account. A transfer of £42,000 was supposed to be the final amount Gerald needed to complete the project in Dubai.
He told her to say it was for building work on her home.
Marjorie said: "I had genuinely been having work done on my home around the same time."
As the fraudster expected, staff in Marjorie’s local HSBC UK branch did ask her about the purpose of the payment and accepted her well-rehearsed explanation.
Marjorie made a further transfer from her HSBC UK account. Gerald said this was needed to cover health and safety checks and inspections before the Dubai project was handed back over to the owners. 
Romance scam revealed 
When Marjorie tried to make yet another payment, the local branch used the UK’s Banking Protocol scheme to call the police and uncover the scam.
Gerald Symonds was a fake identity created by criminals. HSBC UK, the police and the other banks involved launched investigations into the fraud.
Marjorie was the victim of what’s known as a romance scam. Typically, it starts with a fast-moving online relationship, with the fraudster often claiming to be working or travelling outside the UK. 
They then start asking for money. Sometimes it’s to cover the cost of coming to the UK. Or they may claim they can't afford to pay for a relative's urgent operation.
If you've been a victim 
If you think you’ve been the victim of a romance scam, you can call us using the number on the back of your credit or debit card. You can also report it to the national fraud reporting centre Action Fraud Action Fraud This link will open in a new window.
Back to top 
What next? 
Find out more about romance scams 
Share 
Explore more 
How to avoid vaccine scams 
Latest scam warnings 
How to avoid coronavirus scams\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/romance-scams-case-study/
########Top of main content 
Purchase scams: real life story 
Purchase scams happen when you’re paying for an item or service. 
The sender has no intent to provide the item or service and your money is lost.
Often, these scams offer a tempting discount or claim to have 'limited availability'.
Fraudsters typically ask you to send money via bank transfer.
Here’s the cautionary tale of how one HSBC customer lost almost £1,000 after falling victim to a purchase scam.
The details are based on a genuine case but some details have been changed to protect the anonymity of the people involved.
Looked like a bargain 
Tom has banked with HSBC for several years and was helping his father look for a van to help him move house and to use after the move.
They saw a 2018 VW Caddy van for sale on an auction website which they thought looked like a real bargain.
It was a business seller asking for a £950 deposit, with the full price advertised as £4,500.
Tom said: "It seemed ideal and much cheaper than I was expecting. We were very excited to have found such a good price, so we were eager to go through with it before it was sold to someone else."
In his excitement, he paid the deposit by bank transfer and drove from his home in south London to the address in Brighton given by the seller.
But when he spoke to the people living there, they told him there was no van for sale.
They were puzzled by what was happening because somebody else had also knocked on their door earlier to ask the same questions.
Too good to be true 
It was at this point that Tom realised he and his father had been scammed. 
"I couldn't believe it. I was so angry that we'd been tricked in this way. The van I'd paid a £950 deposit for didn't even exist, he said.
Tom reported the fraud to us and we looked into what had happened.
The true market value for that type of van with 90,000 miles on the clock, with no damage, ought to have been closer to £14,000, not £4,500.
The price was too good to be true, which should have set alarm bells ringing.
Tom confirmed to us that he and his father didn't carry out any checks on the seller.
Loss of deposit 
There was no discussion about the size of the deposit, which was 20% of the value of the vehicle.
Tom also didn't ask why a deposit was needed before he had chance to see the van.
There were other tell-tale signs that Tom should have been suspicious about - for example, the seller's bank account was a personal one, even though it was listed as a business on the auction site.
By the time Tom reported the scam to us, the money had gone.
"Later on, I felt foolish because we had clearly rushed into this without thinking straight," said Tom.
“I've learned my lesson the harsh way. I won't be mistaking the same mistake again, that's for sure." 
What could he have done differently? 
In Tom's case, he should have completed checks to make sure the item and seller were genuine, such as:
checking the item existed, asking to see the vehicle either in person or on a video call, before paying any deposit 
researching the seller to make sure they were legitimate 
exercising caution when discussing an appropriate deposit 
checking the advertised price against market value 
How to avoid purchase scams 
Be suspicious if a seller wants you to make a bank transfer – or asks you to send money before receiving an item or service.
Remember, if an offer seems too good to be true, it probably is.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Find out more about purchase scams 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Romance scams: case study 
Cryptocurrency fraud: real life story 
Latest scam warnings\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/purchase-scams-real-life-story/
########Top of main content 
What is token activation fraud? 
With online banking becoming more secure, fraudsters may target you directly to try to steal your money. 
When they try to trick you into handing over your Secure Key activation code, it's known as token activation fraud.
HSBC will never ask you for the token generated from your Secure Key or mobile phone. These are only used to give you access to online banking and move money out of your account. They're not used to stop or block payments. Our fraud teams don't need them either - so you’ll never need to reveal the token to anyone.
How does token activation fraud typically work? 
Over the phone 
The fraudster will call and pretend to be from your bank. They may tell you a large amount of money is due to come out of your account. They’ll then ask if you authorised this payment.
When you say you haven’t, the fraudster will be very understanding and offer to stop the payment for you. They’ll ask what type of Secure Key you have – a physical Secure Key (a device like a small calculator) or a Digital Secure Key (part of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app).
Once they know this, the fraudster will then emphasise they’ll never ask you for the PIN or password for that device. 
The fraudster will now ask you to generate a code from your Secure Key, supposedly to 'stop the payment'. They may again emphasise that they don’t want the PIN or password for the device.
They’ll ask you for the activation code. If you hand over that code, they’ll be able to authorise transactions from your account or completely take over your online banking. 
Via text 
Fraudsters might also contact you by text, claiming to be from your bank. They may ask you to give them a call so they can take you through the same scenario as described in the 'Over the phone' section of this page. They may also ask you to respond to the text with your activation code.
Find out more about the genuine texts that HSBC might send you.
How to prevent token activation fraud 
HSBC will never ask for your:
generated codes 
PINs 
passwords 
activation codes 
If anyone does contact you and ask you for your Secure Key activation code or any other log on details, don’t give it to them. Hang up the phone and never respond to the text.
If you’re ever unsure about a phone call from someone claiming to be your bank, you can hang up the phone and call back on a number you know is genuine. Find out more about how to protect yourself against fraud.
Back to top 
What next? 
Stay up to date with the latest scam warnings 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to avoid remote access takeover 
How to bank safely online 
How to create a strong password\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/token-activation-fraud/
########Top of main content 
Secure Key: Frequently asked questions 
Get help logging on to mobile and online banking 
Help and support 
If you need any help with accessing online or mobile banking, please check out our help tool below before going any further.
Digital banking help tool Digital banking help tool This link will open in a new window 
Frequently asked questions 
Activating your Secure Key
Logging on with your Secure Key
Resetting your log on details
Switching or replacing your Secure Key
Managing the devices you can log on with
Error messages on your Secure Key
Updating your contact details
Setting up a new Secure Key 
How do I set up a new Secure Key? 
Digital Secure Key - You'll need to have already registered for digital banking and chosen a Digital Secure Key.
Open the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app on your device
Enter your username
Select an option to verify it's you - either by entering your password (in full, not just 3 characters) and an activation code sent by text message or, if you already have a Secure Key on another device, via a QR code from one of your other devices
Follow the steps to complete the chosen action
Create and confirm your new Digital Secure Key PIN
You can now log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app using the Digital Secure Key PIN you've just created

Physical Secure Key - You'll need to have received your physical Secure Key (this could take 10 working days from the time you've requested).
Select 'Log on' via hsbc.co.uk
Enter your username and then password (in full, not just 3 characters)
If you have your Secure Key with you, select the 'Activate now' option
Enter the serial number, which is on the back of your Secure Key
Follow the on-screen steps to create your Secure Key PIN
Enter the activation code you received in the letter that came with the Secure Key. If you don't have this or it's expired, there's an option to generate a new activation code on-screen
Follow the instructions to generate a security code on your Secure Key and enter it in the required field
Select 'Continue' and you'll see confirmation that your Secure Key has been set up successfully
How do I set up the mobile banking app on a new device? 
You can set up app access on up to 3 different devices. To do this:
Open the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Enter your username.
Select an option to verify it's you. This can be done by entering your password (in full) and a one-time code sent by text message, or through a QR code from one of your other devices (if you have one).
Follow the steps to complete the chosen action.
Create and confirm your new Digital Secure Key PIN.
You can now log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app using the Digital Secure Key PIN you've just created. 
If you have access to the app through a device you no longer use, you should remove it via 'Manage devices'. To do this, go to the Profile section of the app and select 'Security and generate security code'. If you're using online banking, select 'Account services' in the top menu to find 'Manage devices'.
Alternatively, you can contact us on 03456 002 290 so we can remove the device for you. This will prevent fraudulent access to your accounts.
How do I set up a replacement Secure Key when the battery is low on my existing one? 
If you can still use your Secure Key, but would like to replace it, you can do either of the following:
upgrade to a Digital Secure Key by downloading the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app
order a new physical one using Chat
Just log on to online banking and select 'Chat'.
To upgrade to a Digital Secure Key:
Open the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Enter your username.
Verify it's you by entering your security code.
Follow the steps to complete the chosen action.
Create and confirm your new Digital Secure Key PIN.
If you've chosen to receive a new physical Secure Key, you'll need to wait to receive it and then follow these steps:
Log on to online banking.
Enter your username and then security code.
If you have your Secure Key with you, select 'Activate now'.
Enter the serial number, which is on the back of your new Secure Key.
Follow the on-screen steps to create your Secure Key PIN.
Enter the activation code if you've already received it. If you don't have this or it's expired, there's an option to generate a new activation code on screen.
Follow the instructions to generate a security code on your existing Secure Key and enter it in the required field.
Repeat the instructions to generate a security code from your new Secure Key and enter it in the required field.
Select 'Continue' and you'll see confirmation that your Secure Key has been set up successfully.

You'll have 30 days to activate your new Secure Key. After this time, you won’t be able to log on with your existing Secure Key and will need to activate your new one.
Logging on with your Secure Key 
How do I log on to online banking using my Digital Secure Key? 
Launch the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app and select 'Generate security code'
Select 'Log on security code' from the list
Enter your Digital Secure Key PIN and select 'Generate code'. If you have face or fingerprint recognition set-up, this can also be used to generate a code
Your log on security code will be displayed
How do I generate a one-time passcode using my physical Secure Key? 
To generate a ‘log on security code’ to log on to online banking with your physical Secure Key, follow these instructions:
Press and hold the green button to turn on your Secure Key, then enter your Secure Key PIN.
With the HSBC welcome screen displayed, press the green button to generate a security code.
The security code will be shown on your Secure Key screen.
Resetting your log on details 
What if I've forgotten or locked my Secure Key PIN? 
Digital Secure Key:
If you’ve forgotten your Digital Secure Key PIN, open the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, select the ‘Forgotten Digital Secure Key PIN’ link and follow the on-screen instructions to set up a new PIN.
If you've locked your Digital Secure Key, open th\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/secure-key/updates/
########Top of main content 
Deferring insurance payments 
On this page: 
Life Insurance, Critical Illness Cover and Income Protection policies
Further support
Life Insurance, Critical Illness Cover and Income Protection policies 
If you’re struggling financially because of the impact of coronavirus, HSBC Life (UK) Limited can defer your monthly premiums for 3 months. You’ll need to repay these missed premiums after your deferral ends. Find out more below to help you decide if deferring your premiums is right for you.
Payment deferrals could be suitable for you if:
you have an HSBC Life protection policy (Life Cover, Critical Illness Cover or Income Cover)
and you pay your premiums monthly (investment-linked life policies are not included)
the policy is currently active and you've paid at least one premium
you’re the policyholder and are struggling to afford your insurance premiums as a result of the current coronavirus outbreak
How it works 
If you ask for a deferral, you won’t have to pay your premiums for 3 months. Instead, HSBC Life will collect the missed premiums when your deferral ends. 
This means 4 months’ worth of premiums will be collected at month 4 to ensure your cover can continue. If you’re still struggling financially before this payment is due, please call HSBC Life again to discuss your options.
There’s no need to cancel any future premiums. HSBC Life will automatically update your payments based on what we agree with you when you call.
If you have any questions or concerns at any stage during the deferral, please call to discuss your options.
How to apply 
Please call HSBC Life on 0345 745 6125. Lines are open from 08:00 to 17:00. Their support team will explain the payment deferral scheme in more detail and answer any questions you may have.
If you decide to go ahead, they’ll send you confirmation of your revised future premiums once they’ve processed your request. 
Further support 
For free and impartial advice on managing your money, you can also visit the Money Advice Service coronavirus supportcoronavirus support This link will open in a new window page or call them on 0800 138 7777. Lines are open 08:00 to 18:00 Monday to Friday.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/coronavirus/deferring-insurance-payments/
########Top of main content 
Premier family accounts 
Give your children and grandchildren a financial head start 
Helping children and grandchildren manage their own money 
Understanding and experiencing the value of money is a key life skill you can teach a child and an essential step for them to enjoy their own full lives. HSBC Premier provides specially designed bank and savings accounts to help you do just that.
encourage children to save from the age of 7 with an HSBC Premier MySavings account and the experience of managing a current account from 11 years old with an HSBC Premier MyAccount. HSBC Premier MySavings and HSBC Premier MyAccount are available to children and grandchildren of HSBC Premier customers.*11 view footnote 1
HSBC Premier MyAccount has a contactless debit card that allows them to withdraw up to £100 a day from cash machines in the UK and around the world, without being charged a cash withdrawal fee by HSBC.*22 view footnote 2
the child’s accounts will be held in their name, but we allow parents to check them for complete peace of mind
mobile banking, online and telephone banking from the age of 11
access to the Global Safety Net with access to the same emergency services you would receive abroad (HSBC Premier Emergency Helpline: +44 1470 697 168, Enquiries: 03457 404 404, Overseas: +44 1226 261 010)
*1 Parents must be present at account opening for both child and grandchild accounts. Grandparents do not need to be present at the point of account opening but will be required to verify their Premier status.
*2 Some other cash machine operators may apply a direct charge for withdrawals from their cash machines and this should be advised on screen at the time of withdrawal. These transactions are subject to a non-sterling transaction fee, currently 2.75% of the amount of the transaction.
Apply for HSBC Premier MySavings: 
To open a Premier MySavings for a child, you must be a Premier customer, for which certain financial and other criteria apply.
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for HSBC Premier 
How do I apply for Premier MySavings 
You can apply for a Premier My Savings Account if:
you're 7 to 17
you can provide proof of your identity if your parent or guardian is an HSBC Premier Customer
you and your parent or guardian can provide proof of your identity and address if your parent or guardian isn't an HSBC Premier Customer and you're under 16
you can provide proof of your identity and address if your parent or guardian isn't an HSBC Premier Customer and you're over 16
If your parent/guardian is an HSBC Premier customer 
Your parent or guardian can apply for you quickly and easily in minutes online. They will need your valid passport to hand.
We're busier than usual at the moment, so it may take a little longer to process your application. No need to contact us, though - we'll be in touch.
Log on and apply Log on and apply This link will open in a new window 
Parents and guardians: please make sure your contact details are up-to-date in online banking.
If your parent/guardian isn't an HSBC Premier customer 
You can only apply for Premier MyMoney in-branch. If you're under 16, your parent or guardian must be with you to sign the application.
You can print off the application form and bring it with you or we can print it off for you in branch.
Find a branch near you 
Are you eligible? 
Please ensure you can answer YES to the following questions: 
are you aged between 7 and 17 years old, a UK resident and the child of a Premier customer?
can you provide proof of your identity and addressproof of your identity and address This link will open in a new window (PDF)? (if your parents already bank with us you don't need to provide proof of address)
For a full list of types of identification accepted, read Help us Identify youHelp us Identify you This link will open in a new window (PDF).
Brochures and key facts 
HSBC Premier is subject to status. We'll review your account on a regular basis and if you no longer meet the qualifying criteria, we'll transfer your account to a Bank Account.
Account opening and credit is subject to status. All applicants are required to provide a passport or national ID card and proof of permanent residential address.
Important documents 
Before applying, please take the time to read the following documents. You may also want to save them for future reference.
Privacy Notice (PDF, 639KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 639KB) Download 
UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 134KB) UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 134KB) Download 
HSBC Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance policy document (PDF, 2.40MB) HSBC Premier Worldwide Travel Insurance policy document (PDF, 2.40MB) Download 
HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) Download 
Premier Welcome Brochure (PDF, 628KB) Premier Welcome Brochure (PDF, 628KB) Download 
Important notes Important notes Opens in overlay 
Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Download 
HSBC Premier eligibility criteria 
HSBC Premier is available to you, if you pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account and have either:
Savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or
An individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK: a mortgage, investment, life insurance or protection product.
Or if you’ve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another country or region.
Please review our complete eligibility criteria before applying 
HSBC Premier Bank Account eligibility criteria 
If you'd like to open an HSBC Premier Account, please ensure you fulfil all the following criteria:
you are 18 years or older
your residential address is within the EU or, if you live outside the EU, you can still apply for a HSBC Premier account subject to local rules and regulations and meeting the UK pro\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/home-family/accounts/
########Top of main content 
Global security 
Let us help you keep your children safe 
Protect your children near and far 
Whether your children are going abroad to study or just for the experience of travelling, it's good to know they're not on their own. With HSBC Premier, your family also benefits from some of the features you enjoy.

If your children are planning to go to university abroad, for example, they can take advantage of the international account opening facility - available in more than 30 countries and regions worldwide - to have an account open and ready for them when they arrive.

And, if you have an HSBC Premier Credit Card and want to ensure that they're never left wanting for money and they're 18 years old or over, they can, subject to local terms and conditions, have an additional credit card.

We won't let them down in an emergency, either. With HSBC Emergency Assistance, they can take advantage of up to US$2,000 or currency equivalent emergency cash (with your permission), to be collected from up to 245,000 locations worldwide and get a replacement credit card within 36 hours. You can also use your Worldwide Travel InsuranceWorldwide Travel Insurance This link will open in a new window that offers protection for you and your family on trips (subject to the exclusions and limits of cover).
Apply for HSBC Premier: 
To open a Premier account, you must meet certain financial and other criteria.
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for HSBC Premier 
Eligibility criteria 
HSBC Premier is available to you, if you pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account and have either:
savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or
an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK: a mortgage, investment, life insurance or protection product.
Or if you’ve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another country or region.
Please review our complete eligibility criteria before applying 
HSBC Premier Bank Account eligibility criteria 
If you'd like to open an HSBC Premier Account, please ensure you fulfil all the following criteria:
you are 18 years or older
your residential address is within the EU or, if you live outside the EU, you can still apply for a HSBC Premier account subject to local rules and regulations and meeting the UK proof of address
you can provide us with certified proof of your identity and address and one month's bank statements from your current bank (translated into English if appropriate)
if you are resident in the UK, you are happy for us to undertake a credit register search
in order to qualify for lending, savings and travel insurance benefits and preferential rates you will need to be a UK resident. This is subject to status and meeting HSBC's proof of UK address requirement
For eligibility purposes, please note: HSBC in the UK excludes M&S Bank, first direct and HSBC Expat. For the second criteria listed above (‘an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK’), in the case of a joint account, at least one of the parties must have an individual annual income of at least £75,000. The investment, life insurance or protection products also include those purchased through one of HSBC's advisers.
HSBC Premier Travel Insurance eligibility criteria 
Are you under 70 years of age when your trip starts? Note: When you reach 70, you will no longer be covered by HSBC Premier Travel Insurance.
Are you a resident of the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are you registered with a doctor in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man and liable to pay local taxes?
Are you going to start and finish your trip in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are there any dependent children aged under 18 at the start of the trip or under 23 if they are in full-time education and live with you outside term time? (Children will only be covered when travelling with the account holder or their domestic partner, or whilst travelling abroad on their own to visit and stay with close relatives for the duration of the trip.)
You will need to call the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline on 0800 051 7457 before booking your trip if you or any insured person in the last 12 months has been prescribed medication, have received or are awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations, been referred to a specialist or admitted to hospital for any condition not listed on the accepted conditions list in the 'Your Health' section in the policy booklet. You should also tell us before you travel if there has been any changes to your health or you have been referred to a consultant/specialist or admitted to hospital.
There is no cover for undiagnosed symptoms or any claim where you knew at the time of opening your HSBC Premier Bank Account or booking your trip (whichever is later) that you or your travelling companion may be unable to travel or may need to come home early e.g. illness of a close relative or travel companion.
Pre-existing conditions are not covered at any time under the policy unless listed within the accepted conditions list or have been disclosed to and accepted in writing by the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline.
You must also declare any serious illness, injury or disease suffered by anyone whose health may cause you to cancel or abandon your travel plans, such as a close relative or travelling companion.
Pre-existing medical conditions are not covered at any time under the policy unless they have been disclosed to and accepted in writing by the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline.
Apply for an HSBC Premier Bank Account 
If you meet the eligibility criteria above and have read the Important Documents below and are ready to enjoy the benefits of becoming an HSBC Premier customer, take the next step and contact us:
Apply by phone 
Call us on 0800 328 1296
From outside the UK: +44 1226 260 260
Lines are open 08:00 – 20:\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/home-family/global-safety-net/
########Top of main content 
Premier Mortgage advice 
Enjoy a mortgage service tailored to your needs 
Discover mortgages for you and your family 
Mortgages for you 
We understand how stressful home buying can be. That’s why we’ve developed the Premier Mortgage Service to make it as easy as possible for our Premier customers.1 The service includes:
a range of HSBC mortgages to suit your needs
preferential mortgage terms on selected mortgage products
to guide you through your application and provide you with the advice and support, our Mortgage Team is on hand
to find out how much you can borrow, use our online calculatorour online calculator This link will open in a new window
preferential home insurance terms
Learn about HSBC Mortgages 
Or, to speak to one of our Mortgage Specialists, please call 0800 085 24662
Your home or property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage. 
All mortgage applications are subject to status, eligibility and our lending criteria and an assessment of the circumstances of the applicant.
1You must be an HSBC Premier customer when the mortgage application is made.
Mortgages for your family 
No matter how old your children are, you never stop wanting to help them. The good news is that with HSBC Premier, you can give them some support to get on the property ladder or move home. That’s because the benefits of the HSBC Premier Mortgage Service are also available to your children or grandchildren3.
To learn more about the benefits of the Premier Family Mortgage service, please contact your Relationship Manager or call 0800 085 24662.
Your home or property may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Premier Family Mortgages are subject to status and eligibility.
2 Lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage department may vary.

3 Children/and or grandchildren must be aged 18 or over to be eligible.
Apply for HSBC Premier: 
To open a Premier account, you must meet certain financial and other criteria.
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for HSBC Premier 
Eligibility criteria 
HSBC Premier is available to you, if you pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account and have either:
savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or
an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK: a mortgage, investment, life insurance or protection product.
Or if you’ve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another country or region.
Please review our complete eligibility criteria before applying 
HSBC Premier Bank Account eligibility criteria 
If you'd like to open an HSBC Premier Account, please ensure you fulfil all the following criteria:
you are 18 years or older
your residential address is within the EU, or, if you live outside the EU, you can still apply for a HSBC Premier account subject to local rules and regulations and meeting the UK proof of address
you can provide us with certified proof of your identity and address and one month's bank statements from your current bank (translated into English if appropriate)
if you are resident in the UK, you are happy for us to undertake a credit register search
in order to qualify for lending, savings and travel insurance benefits and preferential rates you will need to be a UK resident. This is subject to status and meeting HSBC's proof of UK address requirement
For eligibility purposes, please note: HSBC in the UK excludes M&S Bank, first direct and HSBC Expat. For the second criteria listed above (‘an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK’), in the case of a joint account, at least one of the parties must have an individual annual income of at least £75,000. The investment, life insurance or protection products also include those purchased through one of HSBC's advisers.
HSBC Premier Travel Insurance eligibility criteria 
Are you under 70 years of age when your trip starts? Note: When you reach 70, you will no longer be covered by HSBC Premier Travel Insurance.
Are you a resident of the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are you registered with a doctor in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man and liable to pay local taxes?
Are you going to start and finish your trip in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are there any dependent children aged under 18 at the start of the trip or under 23 if they are in full-time education and live with you outside term time? (Children will only be covered when travelling with the account holder or their domestic partner, or whilst travelling abroad on their own to visit and stay with close relatives for the duration of the trip.)
You will need to call the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline on 0800 051 7457 before booking your trip if you or any insured person in the last 12 months has been prescribed medication, have received or are awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations, been referred to a specialist or admitted to hospital for any condition not listed on the accepted conditions list in the 'Your Health' section in the policy booklet. You should also tell us before you travel if there has been any changes to your health or you have been referred to a consultant/specialist or admitted to hospital.
There is no cover for undiagnosed symptoms or any claim where you knew at the time of opening your HSBC Premier Bank Account or booking your trip (whichever is later) that you or your travelling companion may be unable to travel or may need to come home early e.g. illness of a close relative or travel companion.
Pre-existing conditions are not covered at any time under the policy unless listed within the accepted conditions list or have been disclosed to and accepted in writing by the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline.
You must also declare any serious\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/day-to-day-banking/mortgages/
########Top of main content 
How to avoid coronavirus scams 
Ever since the coronavirus pandemic started in 2020, fraudsters have tried to use it an opportunity for financial crime.
They're still doing this by posing as trusted organisations like the NHS, banks and even the World Health Organisation. 
One scam is to send bogus messages about getting a vaccine.
These are usually text messages which ask you to confirm your personal and financial details through a website given in a link. Some fraudsters are also trying the same scam with automated phone calls.
Do not visit any of these sites or give any information. Please continue to follow official government advice. 
If you’ve fallen victim to this scam, contact us using the number on the back of your card.
On this page, you can find more about how to avoid other common coronavirus scams.
Remember, HSBC will never ask you for any PINs or passwords or to move money to a safe account.
How to report it 
If you think you've been the victim of a coronavirus scam, please call us immediately
on 03457 404 404 or if outside the UK +44 1226 261 010.
For Premier customers call us on: 03457 707 070.
You can also visit the Take Five websiteTake Five website This link will open in a new window for more help on protecting yourself against fraud.
We also have a useful scams leaflet (PDF, 331.1KB)scams leaflet (PDF, 331.1KB) This link will open in a new window which tells you more about how to stay safe online.
This link will open in a new window 
More pandemic scams to watch out for 
Be aware of the scams below, and regularly check for more warnings on our social media channels: FacebookFacebook This link will open in a new window, TwitterTwitter This link will open in a new window and InstagramInstagram This link will open in a new window.
Vaccine scam
Criminals are sending fake text messages about getting a coronavirus vaccine. Remember, the NHS won’t text or call you to confirm you want the vaccine or ask for your payment or bank details.
Safe account scam
Fraudsters are exploiting pandemic by offering the chance to move your money to a fake safe account. We'll never ask you to do this. If you're suspicious, hang up or don’t reply to the message.
Purchase scam
Fraudsters are using coronavirus to offer fake goods, such as face masks and hand gel. If a deal looks too good to be true, it probably is. Use secure payment methods and only buy from sites you trust.
Fake testing kits
Beware of fraudsters pretending to be medical professionals, promising coronavirus testing kits for a fee. Don't be rushed into a decision. Only criminals will try to rush and panic you.
Other examples of fraud and scams 
HMRC 
We’re seeing criminals pretending to be from HMRC and offering a goodwill payment from the coronavirus fund. Again, HMRC won’t email, text or call about tax rebates or penalties so this could be a scam. Look out for generic greetings like 'Dear customer', bad spelling and odd addresses.
If you receive a message that does look genuine, go to the HMRC websiteHMRC website This link will open in a new window on your browser to check the information given there tallies with what's in your message.
Phishing 
Customers in vulnerable circumstances are receiving unsolicited emails offering insurance and investments. Phishing is an attempt by fraudsters to 'fish' for personal information such as the security details you use for banking. They send an email to as many email addresses as they can, claiming to come from a legitimate organisation such as a bank, online payment service, retailer or similar.
Payment diversion 
Some business customers are being targeted too. They're being invited to purchase a “COVID Bond” or being told to send money to a different account because their account is being frozen by a foreign government.
Doorstep fraud 
There have been cases of fraudsters targeting the elderly and vulnerable, offering to do their shopping or other odd jobs. This may seem like a genuine act of kindness, but fraudsters are taking money or cards and never returning. 
If you can, please only accept help from friends, neighbours or those you know and trust.
Investment scams 
Be aware of scammers capitalising on current stock market volatility. They may unexpectedly contact you through emails and phone calls with:
an attractive investment offer on new shares
a report on investments you already have
a share dealing discount
These tactics are also called ‘boiler room’ scams, as criminals will often pressure you into investing.
Explore more
Latest scams
Coronavirus guidance
Travel guidance during the pandemic
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/how-to-avoid-coronavirus-scams/
########Top of main content 
Relationship management 
Advice for you, not someone like you 
Discover how you can make the most of HSBC Premier 
HSBC Premier offers a range of relationship management services that are there to help you manage your banking and finances and make the most of HSBC Premier. Our aim is to meet your personal needs and circumstances with the service we provide and can introduce you to a range of HSBC specialists as appropriate, including regulated Financial Advisers. 
We will confirm your relationship management service, where applicable, and all the other benefits of HSBC Premier are available to you. We will let you know in advance if there are changes to your relationship management service. There are fees for our financial advice service, which will be explained in advance.
Apply for HSBC Premier: 
To open a Premier account, you must meet certain financial and other criteria. 
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for HSBC Premier 
Eligibility criteria to open an HSBC Premier account 
HSBC Premier is available to you, if you pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account and have either:
savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or
an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK: a mortgage, investment, life insurance or protection product.
Or if you’ve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another country.
Please review our complete eligibility criteria before applying 
HSBC Premier Bank Account eligibility criteria 
If you'd like to open an HSBC Premier Account, please ensure you fulfil all the following criteria:
you are 18 years or older
your residential address is within the EU, or, if you live outside the EU, you can still apply for a HSBC Premier account subject to local rules and regulations and meeting the UK proof of address
you can provide us with certified proof of your identity and address and one month's bank statements from your current bank (translated into English if appropriate)
if you are resident in the UK, you are happy for us to undertake a credit register search
in order to qualify for lending, savings and travel insurance benefits and preferential rates you will need to be a UK resident. This is subject to status and meeting HSBC's proof of UK address requirement
For eligibility purposes, please note: HSBC in the UK excludes M&S Bank, first direct and HSBC Expat. For the second criteria listed above (‘an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK’), in the case of a joint account, at least one of the parties must have an individual annual income of at least £75,000. The investment, life insurance or protection products also include those purchased through one of HSBC's advisers.
Apply for an HSBC Premier Bank Account 
If you meet the eligibility criteria above and are ready to enjoy the benefits of becoming an HSBC Premier customer, take the next step:
Apply online 
Non-HSBC customers can apply for a sole HSBC Premier Bank Account Online by clicking below or in branch or by phone.
If you want to apply for a joint account, this can only be done in branch or by phone
Apply for a sole account Apply for a sole account to apply for HSBC Premier This link will open in a new window 
Already a customer? 
If you're already a customer, you can apply in one of our branches or by calling us on 03457 707 070.
If you're a Premier customer in another country or region, please speak to your Premier Manager or your local branch to apply for an account.
Find a branch near you 
Our lines are open 09:00 to 18:00, Monday to Saturday.
Apply in branch or by phone 
Non HSBC customers: 
You can apply for the HSBC Premier Bank Account by visiting one of our branches. You’ll just need to bring some identification, proof of your address and a recent bank statement.
Existing HSBC customers:
Log on to book an appointment Log on to book an appointment to apply for HSBC Premier This link will open in a new window 
Non HSBC customers:
Continue without logging on Continue without logging on to book an appointment to apply for HSBC Premier This link will open in a new window 
Apply by phone 
Call us on 0800 328 1296
From outside the UK: +44 1226 260 260
Lines are open 8am to 8pm weekdays and 10am to 3pm on Saturdays and Sundays (closed on Bank Holidays).
Textphone numbers Textphone numbers Opens in overlay 
Brochures and key facts 
HSBC Premier is subject to status. We'll review your account on a regular basis and if you no longer meet the qualifying criteria, we'll transfer your account to a Bank Account.
Account opening and credit is subject to status. All applicants are required to provide a passport or national ID card and proof of permanent residential address.
Important documents 
Before applying, please take the time to read the following documents. You may also want to save them for future reference.
Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Privacy Notice (PDF, 638KB) Download 
UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 134KB) UK FSCS Information Sheet and Exclusions List (PDF, 134KB) Download 
HSBC Travel Insurance Policy Wording: HSBC Private Banking, HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits), and HSBC Premier accounts (PDF, 528KB) HSBC Travel Insurance Policy Wording: HSBC Private Banking, HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits), and HSBC Premier accounts (PDF, 528KB) Download 
HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) HSBC Banking Terms and Conditions and Charges (PDF, 1.45MB) Download 
Premier Welcome Brochure (PDF, 628KB) Premier Welcome Brochure (PDF, 628KB) Download 
Important notes Important notes Opens in overlay 
Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Standards of Lending practice (PDF, 44KB) Download 
Discover more Premier products and services
HSBC Global Investment Centre
Build and manage your own portfolio of funds.
HSBC InvestDirect
Build and manage your own portfolio of\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/advice-today-tomorrow/relationship-management-services/
########Top of main content 
Change your gender or title 
How to update your gender status or change to a gender-neutral title 
Take me straight to 
I want to update my gender 
I want a gender-neutral title 
I want to change my name 
How to update your gender with us 
You can change your gender status by visiting your nearest branch. To avoid having to wait when you get there, we recommend booking a 15-minute appointment by calling us on 03457 404 404. Lines are open 08:00 to 20:00 every day (except Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year's Day).
What you'll need
If you only want to update your gender status, we don't need to see any documentation.
For a change of name, you'll need to provide documentation and take it into a branch.
Updating your credit profile
We recommend speaking to credit agencies such as Equifax, TransUnion and Experian about your change of gender. They can ensure your credit profile is updated to reflect your gender status. This is important, especially if you're considering applying for new financial products, such as bank accounts and loans. 
I want a gender-neutral title 

If you don't want a gender-specific title on your account, we can change it to either 'Mx' or 'M'.
For gender-neutral title changes, where you're not changing your name, we don't need any proof for the change to be made. Just call us on 03457 404 404 or 03457 707070 for Premier customers.

We'll update all of your accounts within approximately 7 working days. Some products, such as insurance or investment products, may take longer.
I want to change my name 
You'll need to visit a branch with documentation to change your name. Refer to change of name for what you'll need to do. 
Come and see us 
Find your nearest branch
Find a branch 
Explore more
How to change your name
You can update your name or title at your nearest branch. Find out what information you'll need to bring with you.
How to change your contact details
Keep your phone number and email address up to date, so we can stay in touch.
How to change your address
Update your home or correspondence address - online, over the phone or in branch.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/banking-made-easy/change-of-gender/
########Top of main content 
How to create a strong password 
These days you need dozens of usernames and passwords for everything from checking your bills to connecting to your home Wi-Fi. 
It can be tempting to make them easy to remember. But making your passwords as secure as possible is important, especially the ones you choose for mobile and online banking.
You should also protect other accounts, such as social media.
And it's a good idea to make sure you have a strong and separate password for your email accounts. If criminals hack into those, they could reset your other passwords.
Choosing a strong password and updating it regularly can help to protect yourself against financial fraud.
Make it memorable, but not obvious 
You can create a strong, memorable password by using 3 random words. Add numbers and symbols as well if you like to make your password even stronger.
An example would be something like this:
TurfChainPasta4!
Don't use things that can be easily guessed, like your favourite football team or TV show. 
Save your passwords in your web browser (such as Chrome, Firefox, Safari or Edge) to make sure you don't lose or forget them.
This is safer than using a weak password or using the same password for more than one account.
Another way of creating a strong password is to take the first letter or symbol of an easy-to-remember sentence. 
For example, My Dog Is Called Cyril And I Live At 45 Acacia Avenue Staines could become this:
MDICCAILA45AAS
Adding 5 exclamation marks would make it even stronger:
MDICCAILA45AAS!!!!! 
That's a complex 19-character password that's easy to remember.
Helpful tips 
choose a unique password for online banking and don’t use it for anything else 
think about changing your password if you're worried it's been compromised 
log off from websites and devices when you’ve finished using them 
What to avoid 
Don’t use anything that would be easy to work out, such as:
names of family members 
names of pets 
favourite football teams 
birthdays 
Don’t use any of the following either:
the word 'password' 
numerical sequences, for example '12345' 
easily recognised keypad patterns, such as '14780' or 'qwerty' 
single common dictionary word that hackers could crack 
Never write down your passwords or share them with anyone.
Also, don’t use the same user ID and password for online banking and other services.
Remember: we'll never ask you for your password. If you receive a call or email from someone claiming to be an HSBC employee, government official or even a member of law enforcement and they ask you for your password, ignore the call and contact us immediately.
Back to top 
What next? 
Download our scams leaflet (PDF, 333KB) Download our scams leaflet (PDF, 333KB) This link will open in a new window 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Is digital banking secure? 
Latest scams 
Cyber security: how to bank safely\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/how-to-create-a-strong-password/
########Top of main content 
Current Account interest rates and fees 
Understand more about fees and interest rates for your HSBC current account 
Be clear about what you could pay 
Find out what’s meant by each fee and what you could expect to pay, depending on your account. So, you’ll have a better idea of what may be payable and how to potentially avoid some fees in the future. Plus, find out more about your account's interest rates.
Go straight to:
Overdrafts
Payment and transfer fees
Debit card fees
Tips to avoid extra fees
Overdrafts 
An overdraft is a way of borrowing money through your current account for a short period.
If you've agreed an overdraft limit with us in advance, it's known as an 'arranged overdraft'. If you haven't and your account goes below £0 – or if you go past your arranged limit – it's known as an 'unarranged overdraft'.
Most of our accounts (except our Basic Bank Account) come with an interest-free buffer. If you borrow more than this, you'll need to pay interest on the amount you've borrowed.
Manage your overdraft 
You can ask to increase, decrease or remove your arranged overdraft in our app or by logging on to online banking.
Log on and manage your overdraft Log on and manage your overdraft This link will open in a new window 
Interest and charges 
The following table sets out the charges for using your overdraft.
We charge an Annual Interest Rate on your arranged and unarranged overdraft.
We’ve also set out the EAR (Effective Annual Rate) for your information. This rate takes account of how often interest is charged, but not other fees or charges. We’ve also explained where any interest free amount applies.
We won’t charge you any overdraft interest if you pay the money back in before 23:45 on the same day.
Interest payable on an overdraft by account 
Account Overdraft Annual Interest Rate Overdraft EAR (Effective Annual Rate) Interest free amount 
HSBC Premier Account (retained Jade benefits) & HSBC Private Banking Account customers
	34.05%

	39.9% EAR variable	No interest on the first £1,000 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
HSBC Premier Bank Account	34.05%	39.9% EAR variable	No interest on the first £500 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
HSBC Advance Bank Account	34.05%	39.9% EAR variable	No interest on the first £25 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
Bank Account	34.05%	39.9% EAR variable	No interest on the first £25 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
Bank Account Pay Monthly	34.05%	39.9% EAR variable	No interest on the first £25 of your arranged overdraft. You also have an interest free unarranged overdraft amount of £50.	
Student Bank Account	0%	0% EAR variable	None	
Graduate Bank Account	34.05%	39.9% EAR variable	Year 1: No interest on the first £3,000 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.
Year 2: No interest on the first £2,000 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
Current Account (no longer on sale)	34.05%	39.9% EAR variable	No interest on the first £25 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft	
Account 
HSBC Premier Account (retained Jade benefits) & HSBC Private Banking Account customers
	
Overdraft Annual Interest Rate 34.05%

	
Overdraft EAR (Effective Annual Rate) 39.9% EAR variable	
Interest free amount No interest on the first £1,000 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
	
Account HSBC Premier Bank Account	
Overdraft Annual Interest Rate 34.05%	
Overdraft EAR (Effective Annual Rate) 39.9% EAR variable	
Interest free amount No interest on the first £500 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
	
Account HSBC Advance Bank Account	
Overdraft Annual Interest Rate 34.05%	
Overdraft EAR (Effective Annual Rate) 39.9% EAR variable	
Interest free amount No interest on the first £25 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
	
Account Bank Account	
Overdraft Annual Interest Rate 34.05%	
Overdraft EAR (Effective Annual Rate) 39.9% EAR variable	
Interest free amount No interest on the first £25 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
	
Account Bank Account Pay Monthly	
Overdraft Annual Interest Rate 34.05%	
Overdraft EAR (Effective Annual Rate) 39.9% EAR variable	
Interest free amount No interest on the first £25 of your arranged overdraft. You also have an interest free unarranged overdraft amount of £50.	
	
Account Student Bank Account	
Overdraft Annual Interest Rate 0%	
Overdraft EAR (Effective Annual Rate) 0% EAR variable	
Interest free amount None	
	
Account Graduate Bank Account	
Overdraft Annual Interest Rate 34.05%	
Overdraft EAR (Effective Annual Rate) 39.9% EAR variable	
Interest free amount Year 1: No interest on the first £3,000 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.
Year 2: No interest on the first £2,000 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft.	
	
Account Current Account (no longer on sale)	
Overdraft Annual Interest Rate 34.05%	
Overdraft EAR (Effective Annual Rate) 39.9% EAR variable	
Interest free amount No interest on the first £25 of your arranged or unarranged overdraft	
Use our Overdraft calculator to see how much using an overdraft would cost over a period of up to 31 days.
Unarranged overdrafts 
The table below shows the maximum amount we might charge you in a month in relation to an unarranged overdraft (this is called the Monthly Maximum Charge). 
Account The Monthly Maximum Charge 
HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits) & HSBC Private Banking Account customers
	
£20
	
HSBC Premier Bank Account	£20	
HSBC Advance Bank Account	£20	
Bank Account	£20	
Graduate Bank Account	£20	
Bank Account Pay Monthly	No unarranged overdraft charges	
Student Bank Account	No unarranged overdraft charges	
Current Account (no longer on sale)	£20	
The table below shows the maximum amount we might charge you in a month in relation to an unarranged overdraft (this is called the Monthly Maximum Charge). 
Account 
HSBC Premier (retained Jade benefits) & HSBC Private Banking Account customers
	
The Monthly Maximum Charge 
£20
	
	
Account HSBC Premier Bank Account	
The Monthly Maximum Charge £20	
	
Account HSB\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/interest-rates-and-charges/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage Guides 
You’ll find useful information here to help you on your mortgage journey 
Explore this section to understand the mortgage process and learn more about our mortgages.
Contact us 
0800 169 6333†
Our mortgage guides
First time buyers



Getting a mortgage shouldn’t be confusing: this guide outlines the key steps
Moving your mortgage to HSBC
Learn about how the remortgaging process works
Buy to let



Read our guide on the process to get a buy to let property
Jargon buster



We’ve simplified all the jargon you might come across during the mortgage process 
Our mortgages explained
Payment choices


Find out about the two methods we offer of repaying your mortgage
Armed forces


We offer extra flexibility and support if you’re in the forces

Application documents

These are the documents we’ll need to see to support your application
Information on regulated mortgages
PDF download This link will open in a new window 
Find out about our regulated mortgages 
Managing your mortgage
Base rate changes
Learn about the Bank of England Base Rate and what it means for you 
Mortgage fees

Find out about what fees you can expect to pay
Make changes

Learn more about how to make changes to your mortgage
Money worries

If you have financial difficulties, we can help you manage your payments
How to apply 
New Application 
Applying for a mortgage involves two stages, firstly getting a Decision in Principle; secondly making a mortgage application.
Apply 
Already started an application? 
If you started a mortgage application over the phone or online, you can log on to complete it or track its progress.
Continue Continue Continue 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
† Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/guidance/
########Top of main content 
Tracker mortgages 
Benefit from a variable rate which tracks the Bank of England’s Base rate for a specified time. 
Tracks against the Bank of England base rate 
A tracker mortgage is a type of variable rate mortgage. It follows the Bank of England base rate during a specified period, so your repayments can vary – go up or down.
the interest rate you pay on tracker mortgages is variable and is an agreed percentage above the Bank of England's base rate. As the base rate rises and falls, your interest rate will track these changes, and this will affect your monthly payments accordingly
HSBC Tracker mortgages are term trackers, this means that they track the Bank of England base rate for a fixed period (e.g. 2 years), after which they will revert to the HSBC standard variable rate or the HSBC Buy to let standard variable rate unless a new rate is arranged 
Key information about our tracker mortgages 
Interest type: Variable.
Is interest calculated daily? Yes.
Can I make overpayments without incurring Early Repayment Charges (ERC)? Yes, make unlimited overpayments and pay your mortgage off early without an ERC. 
Is there an exit fee? No, you don’t have to pay an exit fee when you fully repay your mortgage. 
Can I 'port' my loan if I move home? Yes. This is the term used to describe transferring your current HSBC mortgage rate from one property to another when moving home (known as porting). This is subject to our standard lending criteria and terms and conditions.
Tracker rate fees and charges 
View HSBC Tracker rate mortgages 
Contact us 
0800 169 6333†
How to apply 
New Application 
Applying for a mortgage involves two stages, firstly getting a Decision in Principle; secondly making a mortgage application.
Apply Apply for a tracker mortgage here 
Already started an application? 
If you started a mortgage application over the phone, in branch or online, you can log on to complete it or track its progress. 
Continue Continue your application 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
†† † view footnote † Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/tracker-mortgages/
########Top of main content 
Supporting the needs of all our customers 
If you have a current account with us, these tables show the key ways of supporting you when you need us. 
How we can help you if you are experiencing money worries 
Dealing with the unexpected
Our trained specialists are here to help, working with you to develop a plan for sorting out your finances. 
You may wish to complete our income and expenditure form online or alongside one of our trained specialists.
	
Visit our Help pages for details
Visit our Information pages for details 
	
Additional help and support
We are partnered with StepChange Debt Charity who can provide free and independent advice where multiple providers are involved
	
Visit the Stepchange website for details 
	
How we can help you if you are experiencing money worries 
Dealing with the unexpected
Additional help and support
	
Our trained specialists are here to help, working with you to develop a plan for sorting out your finances. 
You may wish to complete our income and expenditure form online or alongside one of our trained specialists.
We are partnered with StepChange Debt Charity who can provide free and independent advice where multiple providers are involved
	
Visit our Help pages for details
Visit our Information pages for details 
Visit the Stepchange website for details 
	
How we can help you deal with a major life event 
Contacting us
You can contact us in a way that suits you, including online, by phone or by visiting us in branch. 
	
Visit our Ways to bank page for more information
	
Specialist support
We have trained specialists to support you when you are dealing with the death of a loved one.
We provide links to other useful organisations for information and guidance to bereavement.
	
Visit our Bereavement support pages for more information 
Visit our Further support page for more information
	
Bereavement
Our bereavement guide provides support through the steps and decisions you need to take and is available online or in printed format in our branches. 
If someone close to you passes away, you are able to notify us in a way that suits you using online banking, by phone or by visiting us in branch.
	
View our Bereavement support guideBereavement support guide This link will open in a new window for more information
Contact our dedicated bereavement support team on 0800 085 1992
	
Other life events
Our life events pages offer a wide array of further help and support.
	
Visit our Support pages for further guidance
	
How we can help you deal with a major life event 
Contacting us
Specialist support
	
You can contact us in a way that suits you, including online, by phone or by visiting us in branch. 
We have trained specialists to support you when you are dealing with the death of a loved one.
We provide links to other useful organisations for information and guidance to bereavement.
	
Visit our Ways to bank page for more information
Visit our Bereavement support pages for more information 
Visit our Further support page for more information
	
	
Contacting us
Bereavement
	
You can contact us in a way that suits you, including online, by phone or by visiting us in branch. 
Our bereavement guide provides support through the steps and decisions you need to take and is available online or in printed format in our branches. 
If someone close to you passes away, you are able to notify us in a way that suits you using online banking, by phone or by visiting us in branch.
	
Visit our Ways to bank page for more information
View our Bereavement support guideBereavement support guide This link will open in a new window for more information
Contact our dedicated bereavement support team on 0800 085 1992
	
	
Contacting us
Other life events
	
You can contact us in a way that suits you, including online, by phone or by visiting us in branch. 
Our life events pages offer a wide array of further help and support.
	
Visit our Ways to bank page for more information
Visit our Support pages for further guidance
	
How we can help you manage your day-to-day money better 
Helping you understand your money
Banking on a mobile app lets you see your accounts at anytime from anywhere. This means you can always have a complete picture of your financial situation, which can help you stay on top of your money. 
With the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app (device restrictions apply) you can choose to be notified when money goes in or out of your current or savings accounts. You can also get notifications of when payments are made from your HSBC credit cards.
You can also use tools like Balance After Bills on our mobile app. It shows you how much you could have left for the month ahead, once scheduled bills are taken into account, to help you manage your money.
	
Visit our mobile banking page for more information
Visit our Balance After Bills page for details
	
Helping you develop your financial skills
Our financial fitness hub gives you the tools you need to help work your money. Answer some quick questions about your spending, saving and borrowing to generate your own financial fitness score out of 100. Find out how you compare to others like you and get tips to help you set achievable goals. 
We offer practical guidance in becoming more money-savvy and managing your finances.
	
Visit our Financial Fitness page for more information
Visit our Information pages for details
	
How we can help you manage your day-to-day money better 
Helping you understand your money
Helping you develop your financial skills
	
Banking on a mobile app lets you see your accounts at anytime from anywhere. This means you can always have a complete picture of your financial situation, which can help you stay on top of your money. 
With the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app (device restrictions apply) you can choose to be notified when money goes in or out of your current or savings accounts. You can also get notifications of when payments are made from your HSBC credit cards.
You can also use tools like Balance A\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/supporting-customer-needs/
########Top of main content 
Photo ID and selfie verification 
Securely register for mobile banking 
A smart way to verify yourself 
If you're setting up the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app for the first time you can now use our Photo ID and selfie tool to securely verify your identity and complete digital registration. You just need to upload a photo of your ID plus a photo of yourself and we'll use these to confirm your identity. 
Download the app Download the app for HSBC UK Mobile Banking 
Why use Photo ID and selfie? 
Register right away 
Register without needing to contact us or wait for a Telephone Security Number. 
Secure 
Information and photos you share with us through the app are encrypted. 
Quick and easy 
Verify who you are with just two photos - one of your ID and one of yourself. 
Keep your money and personal data safe and secure 
Photo ID and selfie is a new secure way to verify who you are - allowing you to get access to your bank accounts digitally. By providing your photos and documents within the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app your information stays safe and secure every step of the way.
As always, our top priority is to make sure your money and personal data is protected. Find out more about our Digital Security Promise.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
en Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
Getting started 
Watch our short video to find out how you can use Photo ID and selfie to verify your ID in the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. 
What happens next? 
Here's what happens after you've successfully uploaded your ID and selfie 
You'll be asked to create a Digital Secure Key (DSK) PIN inside the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app.
Then, once your ID is successfully verified, you'll be able to use your DSK PIN to log on to the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app, or generate codes for online banking.
If you get a message in the app that says 'We're still checking your details', it means that it may take a little longer for us to verify your ID. This should only take up to 2 hours, but we'll let you know if it's been successful or not within 24 hours.
If your ID verification hasn't been successful, you can either try again using Photo ID and selfie or use a different method to verify, such as your Telephone Security Number. If you don't currently have a Telephone Security Number and would like to set one up please contact us on 03457 404404.
Frequently asked questions 
Can I register via Photo ID and selfie on online banking too? 
No, Photo ID and selfie can only be used for registration to online banking via the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app. Once you have registered via Photo ID and selfie you'll be able to use online banking too. 
As a holder of a joint account do I need to register individually on the mobile application? 
Yes, joint account holders need to provide their details separately to register. 
What documents can I use as proof of ID? 
We can accept these proofs of ID:
UK photocard driving licence or provisional driving licence.
Passport.
National EEA or Swiss ID card.
What do I do if I get a message saying ‘Something went wrong' while going through the Photo ID and selfie check? 
If you're getting this message, it means your attempt to register using Photo ID and selfie has been interrupted. This might be because of a technical error or you may have cancelled the registration journey before completion. You need to try uploading photos of your ID and selfie again.
What do I do if get the error message ‘Identification failed’ when I'm trying to register for online banking on my mobile device using Photo ID and selfie? 
If your identification is unsuccessful using using Photo ID and selfie, please re-enter your details or choose a different ID verification method. 
Don't have the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app? 
Mobile banking 
Banking from the palm of your hand 
Find out more and download Find out more and download the HSBC UK Mobile Banking app 
You might be interested in
Register for digital banking
Register for digital banking with us through our Mobile Banking app or online banking.
Secure Key help
Having any trouble with your Secure Key or logging on? This tool will give you all the information you need.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/ways-to-bank/mobile/id-and-selfie/
########Top of main content 
HSBC UK Instalment Plans - Illustrative examples 
Spread the cost of your larger credit card purchases using a credit card instalment plan.
The examples show the costs and savings of repaying using a typical instalment plan, compared to repaying it over the same period without an instalment plan. 
Example 1 
This shows how much you could pay - and save - by repaying the amount shown on an instalment plan, over the period shown, compared to repaying it over the same period without an instalment plan.
Repay £2,000 over a period of 12 months 
Instalment plan
No instalment plan
Fees Interest 
£120

Total monthly fees (6% of the plan amount)	£222.31

Total interest on purchases (based on fixed monthly payments)	
The equivalent annual interest rate to the fees is 10.9%
	The simple annual rate used to work out interest is 20%

This assumes the credit card APR is 21.9%	
Monthly payment : £176.66

Including monthly fee
	Monthly payment : £185.19

Fixed payment including interest	
Total amount to pay: £2,120.00
	Total amount to pay: £2,222.31
	
Repay £2,000 over a period of 12 months 
Instalment plan
Fees	
No instalment plan
Interest	
	
Instalment plan
£120

Total monthly fees (6% of the plan amount)	
No instalment plan
£222.31

Total interest on purchases (based on fixed monthly payments)	
	
Instalment plan
The equivalent annual interest rate to the fees is 10.9%
	
No instalment plan
The simple annual rate used to work out interest is 20%

This assumes the credit card APR is 21.9%	
	
Instalment plan
Monthly payment : £176.66

Including monthly fee
	
No instalment plan
Monthly payment : £185.19

Fixed payment including interest	
	
Instalment plan
Total amount to pay: £2,120.00
	
No instalment plan
Total amount to pay: £2,222.31
	
Using this example, you’d save £102.31 with an instalment plan.
The above example is for illustrative purposes only. Your actual saving may be more or less than the amount shown, depending on your plan.
There may be a small adjustment to the final monthly payment to reach the ‘Total amount to pay’.
The example may not reflect the standard purchase rate which applies to your account, or the fees which would apply to your instalment plan.
It assumes the following:
Payments are made in full and on time each month.
If you don’t have an instalment plan, the same balance is repaid over the same period by making equal monthly payments and there’s no other spend on your card. The amount of interest you actually pay will depend on the rate which applies to your account and the payments you make (when you make them, and their value). For example, if you only make the minimum payment each month, it will take you longer and cost you more to repay the same amount. 
Example 2 
This shows how much you could pay - and save - by repaying the amount shown on an instalment plan, over the period shown, compared to repaying it over the same period without an instalment plan.
Repay £1,000 over a period of 6 months 
Instalment plan
No instalment plan
Fees Interest 
£30

Total monthly fees (3% of the plan amount)
	£58.51

Total interest on purchases (based on fixed monthly payments)
	
The equivalent annual interest rate to the fees is 10.2%
	The simple annual rate used to work out interest is 20%

This assumes the credit card APR is 21.9%	
Monthly payment : £171.66

Including monthly fee
	Monthly payment : £176.42

Fixed payment including interest	
Total amount to pay: £1,030.00
	Total amount to pay: £1,058.51
	
Repay £1,000 over a period of 6 months 
Instalment plan
Fees	
No instalment plan
Interest	
	
Instalment plan
£30

Total monthly fees (3% of the plan amount)
	
No instalment plan
£58.51

Total interest on purchases (based on fixed monthly payments)
	
	
Instalment plan
The equivalent annual interest rate to the fees is 10.2%
	
No instalment plan
The simple annual rate used to work out interest is 20%

This assumes the credit card APR is 21.9%	
	
Instalment plan
Monthly payment : £171.66

Including monthly fee
	
No instalment plan
Monthly payment : £176.42

Fixed payment including interest	
	
Instalment plan
Total amount to pay: £1,030.00
	
No instalment plan
Total amount to pay: £1,058.51
	
Using this example, you’d save £28.51 with an instalment plan.
The above example is for illustrative purposes only. Your actual saving may be more or less than the amount shown, depending on your plan.
There may be a small adjustment to the final monthly payment to reach the ‘Total amount to pay’.
The example may not reflect the standard purchase rate which applies to your account, or the fees which would apply to your instalment plan.
It assumes the following:
Payments are made in full and on time each month.
If you don’t have an instalment plan, the same balance is repaid over the same period by making equal monthly payments and there’s no other spend on your card. The amount of interest you actually pay will depend on the rate which applies to your account and the payments you make (when you make them, and their value). For example, if you only make the minimum payment each month, it will take you longer and cost you more to repay the same amount. 
Example 3 
This shows how much you could pay - and save - by repaying the amount shown on an instalment plan, over the period shown, compared to repaying it over the same period without an instalment plan.
Repay £500 over a period of 3 months 
Instalment plan
No instalment plan
Fees Interest 
£15

Total monthly fees (3% of the plan amount)	£16.53

Total interest on purchases (based on fixed monthly payments)	
The equivalent annual interest rate to the fees is 17.9%
	The simple annual rate used to work out interest is 20%

This assumes the credit card APR is 21.9%	
Monthly payment : £171.67

Including monthly fee
	Monthly payment : £172.18

Fixed payment including interest	
Total amount to pay: £515.00
	Total amount to pay: £516.53
	
Repay £500 over a period of 3 months 
Instalment plan
Fees	
No instalment plan
Interest	
	
Instalment pl\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/card-support/instalments/illustrative-examples/
########Top of main content 
Mortgage definitions 
Our list of mortgage terms explained will help you feel more confident when completing paperwork and making those big decisions. 
A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z 
A 
Additional borrowing - This is when you borrow more money and therefore increase the overall size of your mortgage. You can then use the extra money to pay for home improvements, for example.
Annual Percentage Rate of Charge (APRC) - Shows you the total cost of a mortgage, including fees, over the full term of the mortgage. 
B 
Bankruptcy search - The conveyancer or solicitor will check if the seller or buyer is, or has previously been made bankrupt.
Base rate - The base rate is set by the Bank of England and determines the interest rates UK banks charge on savings and borrowing money.
Booking fee - A fee charged on some mortgages to secure a particular mortgage deal.
C 
Capital repayment - ‘Capital’ is the money you’ve borrowed, so a capital repayment is the amount you pay to your mortgage lender every month. This includes some of what you've borrowed and some of the interest on the loan.
Completion - This is when the sale and purchase of a property is completed, and the buyer’s solicitor or conveyancer pays the purchase amount to the seller’s solicitor or conveyancer. Once completion has taken place the buyer can collect the keys to the property.
Completion fee - A fee that covers the cost of electronically transferring your mortgage funds to you or your solicitor.
Consent to let (CTL)- This allows you to let your residential property, if you have a short term letting need (for example, if you move outside the UK for a period of time). You need to apply to your lender for their consent to do this.
Contract - A written agreement by the seller and buyer for the sale and purchase of a property. The contract details the terms and conditions of the sale and purchase, and is not legally binding until the exchange of contracts
Conveyancer - A conveyancer is a person or company licenced to represent you when purchasing a property. They will handle legal documentation, including liaising with the appropriate land registry and transferring legal ownership of the property.
D 
Decision in principle - Also known as an agreement in principle), this is an indication of how much you could borrow from a mortgage provider. It's based on your income details and expenditure as well as a soft credit check. It shows an estate agent that you’re in a good position to buy a property.
Deposit - The amount of money you pay towards your property. The deposit will be a percentage of the cost of the property. 
Drawn-down - This is when the mortgage funds have been sent to your solicitor and the mortgage term has started.
E 
Early Repayment Charge - You may have to pay this if you repay all or part of your mortgage early. This includes moving to a different HSBC product or a different lender within a certain period.
Estimated property value - This is the purchase price or the market value of the property you want to buy.
Exchange of contracts - This means the contracts are exchanged between the seller’s and the buyer’s conveyancer or solicitor. The sale and purchase of the property only become legally binding once the contracts have been exchanged.
Exit fee - You may have to pay this when you fully repay your mortgage. HSBC doesn’t charge exit fees.
F 
Fee Saver - With HSBC’s Fee Saver there’s no booking fee and no completion fee when you remortgage. We’ll also cover the cost of standard valuation where we require it as part of your mortgage application. You may have to pay other fees and charges to other parties. 
Financial crime - This means money laundering, terrorist financing, bribery, corruption, tax evasion, fraud, evasion of economic or trade sanctions or any acts or attempts to break any laws relating to these matters.
First legal charge (England, Wales and Northern Ireland) - First legal charge - When using a mortgage to cover the costs of a property purchase, the lender takes a legal 'charge' against the property. Since this would be the first such legal charge attached to the property, it's referred to as a first charge mortgage.
First ranking standard security (Scotland) - This is the document in Scotland which allows the lender to take control of the property if you don’t meet your obligations under the loan.
Fixed rate mortgage - This is a type of mortgage where repayments are set at an agreed amount, for a set period of time, and aren’t affected by changes in interest rates. 
Fixed until - The date on which a fixed rate mortgage ends.
Full reinstatement value - This is the total cost of rebuilding the property for insurance purposes.
H 
HM Land Registry - The register holds details about the property, such as the date the current owner was registered as the owner, the property address, whether the property is freehold or leasehold and other information relating to the property title. The Land Registry is a government department that holds records of property titles registered in England and Wales. 
I 
Illustrative - This means it's just an example.
Interest calculated daily - The interest charged on your outstanding mortgage balance is calculated every day rather than at the end of each week, month or year.
Interest-only mortgage - You will only pay the interest on what you’ve borrowed with this type of mortgage. At the end of the mortgage term you’ll be responsible for repaying the original amount borrowed.
Interest rate type - The interest you pay on your mortgage may be variable or fixed at a set rate for a set period of time. 
L 
Legal charge (England, Wales and Northern Ireland) - This is a legal document signed by the borrower which is registered against the property at the Land Registry and used to secure the mortgage against that property.
Letter of consent - 
This means a letter of consent and postponement by deed that is sent to anyone who: 
is aged 17 or over and l\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/guidance/jargon-buster/
########Top of main content 
Rewards Credit Card FAQs 
On this page
About Pay with Rewards
What is Pay with Rewards?
How does it work?
What are the benefits of using Pay with Rewards?
Will Pay with Rewards be available to other HSBC Credit Card holders?
Is there a fee to register or use Pay with Rewards?
Getting Started
How do I get started?
Which mobile operating systems does Pay with Rewards support?
Can I turn Pay with Rewards on through the call centre?
What is the ‘Next Purchase’ button?
What options can I set for using my points?
Can I use Pay with Rewards with my digital wallet?
When can I start using Pay with Rewards?
Points and Redemption
Can I earn points on all transactions I make?
How many points do I earn when I make a purchase?
Is there a limit to how much I can earn?
Will I accrue points even if I don’t register on Pay with Rewards app or website?
Can Pay with Rewards be used for any transaction?
Is there a minimum number of points I need before I can start redeeming them?
How do I receive redemption notifications?
Is there a maximum amount that I can redeem?
I forgot to use Pay with Rewards points on my last purchase. What should I do now?
Accidentally, I used the points on my last purchase. Can I reverse it and pay by card instead?
What happens if I do not have sufficient points to cover the total cost of the transaction?
How can I track my points balance and activity?
How soon will I see Pay with Rewards transactions hit my credit card account?
What do I do if some of my points are missing?
What happens if I earned points on a purchase I’ve subsequently returned?
What happens if I use my points for a purchase that is subsequently returned?
Why do I see various promotions in my Pay with Rewards account?
What happens if I input the wrong passcode in the Pay with Rewards app?
I have the mobile app installed on my phone. What should I do if my phone gets lost or stolen?
What happens to my points if I close my account?
More Information
I have an additional cardholder on my Rewards account. Can they also use the Pay with Rewards app and redeem points?
Can I ask a merchant about my rewards balance?
Do my points expire?
Can I use my points if I am about to reach or have reached my credit limit?
Are there any circumstances where I won’t be able to earn or use points?
Account and Settings
I cancelled my existing card and received a replacement with a different card number. How do I add my new card?
I forgot my passcode to the app, how can I reset it?
Know Pay with Rewards 
Q. What is Pay with Rewards?
A. Pay with Rewards is an innovative solution by Mastercard® that allows HSBC Rewards credit card customers to use their reward points against purchases they make at millions of participating locations worldwide, both for in store and online transactions.
Q. How does it work?
A. Simply register via the Pay with Rewards mobile app, or through the Pay and Rewards website.
You’ll earn points whenever you use your card to make a purchase but you won’t be able to see or spend your points until after you’ve registered.
You can redeem your points against a purchase at any time, even if you haven’t got enough points to pay for the whole of a transaction. You can even set your preferences so your points are automatically used for your next purchase. The original purchase, and the corresponding Pay with Rewards credit, will appear on your monthly credit card statement.
And don’t worry, if you forget to allocate your points before making a purchase, you can still use them against a valid transaction made within the last 7 days.
Q. What are the benefits of using Pay with Rewards?
A. With Pay with Rewards, you have endless opportunities for using points against purchases you make, in-store or online, at millions of eligible Mastercard locations, within and outside of the UK1. You can view and redeem your rewards via mobile app or online. Set your Pay with Rewards preferences and simply use your card like you normally would. The monetary equivalent of your points will be credited to your card account.
1Any Non-sterling transactions will be charged with a Non-sterling transaction fee of 2.99%. The fees will be applied on the entire transaction amount regardless of the points used. Reward Points can’t be used against the Non-sterling transaction fee).
Q. Will Pay with Rewards be available to other HSBC Credit Card holders?
A. Currently, Pay with Rewards is only available to HSBC Rewards primary credit card holders.
Q. Is there a fee to register or use Pay with Rewards?
A. No, there is no charge associated with Pay with Rewards.
Back to top 
Getting Started 
Q. How do I get started?
A. Registering your HSBC Rewards Credit Card through the Pay with Rewards mobile app or website is simple and secure.
Mobile App:
Simply download the Pay with Rewards app onto your mobile device from Google Play or the App Store.1
Set a four-digit passcode.
Enter your primary HSBC Rewards card number and follow the on-screen instructions. The home screen will show your Rewards points balance, the cash equivalent of your Rewards points balance, and your current Pay with Rewards status. Simply tap “Next Purchase” (or “No Purchases”) to configure Pay with Rewards for your next purchase.
1App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Google Play and Android are trademarks of Google LLC.
Website:
Log on to the Pay with Rewards websitePay with Rewards website This link will open in a new window for HSBC Rewards Programme.
Enter your HSBC Rewards card number and follow the on-screen instructions.
You can check your Rewards points balance, the cash equivalent of your Rewards points balance, and your current Pay with Rewards status. Simply tap “Next Purchase” (or “No Purchases”) to configure Pay with Rewards for your next purchase.
Q. Which mobile operating systems does Pay with Rewards support?
A. Pay with Rewards supports:
Android – Requires 2.3 or above2
iOS – Requires 7.1 or above2
2App Store is a service mark of Apple Inc. Google Play a\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/products/rewards/faq/
########Top of main content 
Wine and champagne 
Exchange your points for wine, champagne, beer or spirits from Laithwaites. 
From rich reds and crisp whites, to fizz, craft beers and more, see what your points could get you from Laithwaites' quality drinks line-up.
The range may change depending on which credit card you have, so check the selection that applies to you on this page. You can also talk to Laithwaites about other options that might be available when you place your order. 
How to exchange your points 
Visit winerewards.laithwaites.co.ukwinerewards.laithwaites.co.uk This link will open in a new window to explore the full range and redeem your points.
Alternatively, call Laithwaites on 03330 148 174.
Lines are open Monday to Friday 09:00 to 17:00 or Saturday 09:00 to 14:00.
You can arrange to have your wine delivered to any UK address (excluding the Channel Islands).
HSBC credit card range 
HSBC Duo – 6,406 points 
If you’re after a couple of top bottles for the weekend, or simply looking to replenish your wine supplies, this handy two-bottle mix should be your go-to. It features two wines that deliver flavour-packed deliciousness at a very reasonable price. Dependable customer favourites you can reach for at a moment’s notice. You’ve a super-fresh white … and silk-smooth, rich red … both guaranteed to satisfy. Enjoy! 
Sipsmith Gin – 10,835 points 
Based in leafy Chiswick, Sipsmith are the first new copper distillery to open in London for nearly 200 years. Their aim is to make a fine, traditional gin with an invigorating lift from all its fragrant botanicals – bold, complex and super-smooth.
Laurent-Perrier La Cuvée – 13,984 points 
Impeccable style of creamy richness, blossom scents and toasty length in the NV fizz from one of Champagne’s top houses. A high proportion of Chardonnay and reserve wines, plus at least four years’ ageing in the cellars, ensure a very fine bubbly.
HSBC Trio – 8,950 points 
In this mix you’ll enjoy a variety of iconic styles from top-tier wineries we’ve worked with for years … some of our customers’ favourites too. These bottles have been picked for their easy-drinking flavour and superb value – a winning combo in the world of wine. Today you can enjoy them at a special price too in this three-bottle mix.
HSBC Everyday Six Mixed Case – 14,125 points 
The ultimate wine rack essentials in a six-bottle mix – great value and delicious easy-drinking
You don’t want to open your best bottles every time you fancy a glass of something nice. But you do want something that you know will be delicious and satisfying. These wines fit the bill perfectly and let you top up your wine rack at a very reasonable price.
Celebration Mixed Twelve Bottle Case – 31,041 points 
The ultimate celebration selection – featuring a range of styles to please every taste
What a line-up! Whatever you’re celebrating, make sure you’ve got this collection sitting and ready to go – a mix featuring everything you need to really get the party started. Juicy reds, refreshing whites, crisp rosés, and even bubbly Prosecco. All at a very reasonable price too..
Please visit winerewards.laithwaites.co.ukwinerewards.laithwaites.co.uk This link will open in a new window to explore the full HSBC range and redeem your points.
HSBC credit card range Points RRP 
HSBC Duo
	
6,406 
	
£28.97 
	
Sipsmith Gin
	
10,835 
	
£36.49 
	
Laurent-Perrier La Cuvée 
	
13,984
	
£47.98
	
HSBC Trio
	
8,950
	
£41.96
	
HSBC Everyday Mixed Case (6 bottles)
	
14,125
	
£64.93
	
Celebration Mixed Case (12 bottles)
	
31,041
	
£163.37
	
HSBC credit card range 
HSBC Duo
	
Points 
6,406 
	
RRP 
£28.97 
	
	
HSBC credit card range 
Sipsmith Gin
	
Points 
10,835 
	
RRP 
£36.49 
	
	
HSBC credit card range 
Laurent-Perrier La Cuvée 
	
Points 
13,984
	
RRP 
£47.98
	
	
HSBC credit card range 
HSBC Trio
	
Points 
8,950
	
RRP 
£41.96
	
	
HSBC credit card range 
HSBC Everyday Mixed Case (6 bottles)
	
Points 
14,125
	
RRP 
£64.93
	
	
HSBC credit card range 
Celebration Mixed Case (12 bottles)
	
Points 
31,041
	
RRP 
£163.37
	
All images on this page are for illustrative purposes only.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/rewards/wine/
########Top of main content 
Bereavement glossary 
A B C D E G I L N P R S T W
A 
Absolute interest 
An interest that the beneficiary is completely entitled to immediately, without any restrictions.
Acquisition (probate value) 
The value at which either the personal representatives or the beneficiary acquires the assets.
Administration 
The formal and legal term for dealing with the estate.
Administration period 
The period between the date of death and the date of the close of administration.
Administrator 
The person appointed to administer an estate where there is no valid will, or where the executor is unable, or unwilling, to act.
Agreed value 
The probate value as formally agreed by HMRC where inheritance tax is payable.
Appointment, power of 
Person(s) named in a Will to dispose of certain property.
Asset 
Property, money or possessions that belonged to the deceased.
Attorney 
A person appointed by another to act in his/her place.
B 
Beneficiary 
A person who inherits all or part of the money or property from someone who has died.
C 
Capital Gains Tax (CGT) 
Capital Gains Tax is a tax on capital 'gains'. If when you sell or give away an asset that has increased in value, you may be taxable on the profit/gain.
Civil Partner 
A civil partnership is a legally recognised relationship between two people of the same sex. A civil partnership only exists once it is registered. Once registered it confers the same rights and responsibilities as marriage.
Codicil 
This is a written amendment making changes to an existing will. To be valid the document must be signed and witnessed and refer to an existing will.
Confirmation 
This is a legal document issued by the Sheriff's Court in Scotland where the deceased lived in Scotland. It is the equivalent to the Grant of Probate issued in England and Wales.
Coroner's Certificate 
In certain circumstances a death has to be investigated by the Coroner. In these cases a Coroner's Certificate may be provided in lieu of a death certificate or until the formal death certificate is issued.
D 
Death certificate 
The legal document issued by the registrar when a person dies. It is a copy of the entry in the death register.
Deed of variation 
This allows beneficiaries to change how the estate is distributed to reflect family circumstances or possibly save future inheritance tax.
Dispute 
This can be an ongoing disagreement or argument between family members/beneficiaries of an estate or Executors. It can also be where a third party is challenging the validity of a Will or is making a claim on the deceased estate or where all the persons entitled to deal with the estate cannot be found or are known.
E 
Estate 
The total value of everything owned by a person when they died – money, property and possessions – after any debts they had have been settled.
Estate accounts 
Accounts listing all of transactions during the administration period.
Executor 
The person(s) named in a will who is responsible for making sure the wishes of the person who died are carried out.
G 
Grant of letters of administration 
This is issued by the Probate Registry where no valid will exists or the deceased did not make a will. The document names the person(s) who are legally appointed to administer the deceased person's estate.
Grant of Probate 
This is a legal document issued by the Probate Registry confirming that a deceased person's will was valid and names the Executor(s) who are legally appointed to administer the deceased person's estate as set out in the will. In Scotland this document is called ‘Confirmation' and is issued by the Sheriffs Court.
Grant of representation 
A general term for a document that provides proof that someone has been legally appointed to deal with a deceased person's estate.
I 
Inheritance tax 
Tax that is paid from the estate of a person who has died and must be paid before the estate is shared out to the beneficiaries.
Informant 
The informant is the person who notifies the bank of the death of a customer. This may be a PR, a family member, friend or relative.
Intestacy 
When someone has died without having made a valid will or where the will doesn't deal with all the deceased assets. A person who dies without having made a valid will is known as having died ‘intestate'.
L 
Legacy or bequest 
A gift contained in a will, i.e.: a specific item or general bequest of money.
Letters of Administration 
A legal document issued by the Probate Registry naming the person appointed to administer a deceased person estate when the person died without making a will.
N 
Next of Kin 
The closest related family member(s) of a person who has died. This is normally their husband, wife, civil partner or their child/children.
Nil rate band 
The value of assets which a deceased person can leave to friends or family without them having to pay any inheritance tax.
P 
Personal representative 
The person who is responsible for dealing with the estate.
Probate 
The legal term for giving someone the authority to manage the estate of a person who has died. In Scotland, Probate is known as Confirmation.
Probate Registry 
The Probate Registry is a legal court which is responsible for authenticating claims on a deceased person estate either a Will or Intestacy and will legally appoint a person(s) to administer the estate. Once authenticated they will issue a grants of probate or grant of letters of administration. In Scotland this is the Sheriffs Court.
R 
Renouncing probate 
The act whereby a named personal representative signs a legal document which cancels his/her appointment from the start.
Residuary estate 
What remains of the estate after payment of all debts, legacies and all taxes and expenses.
S 
Spouse 
Either member of a married pair in a relation to the other, one's husband or wife.
T 
Testator 
The person who makes a will
Trustee(s) 
The person(s) who are authorized or have a position of trust or responsibility for holding or managing assets for the benefit of another.
W 
Will 
A \Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/bereavement/glossary/
########Top of main content 
Court of Protection order – Frequently Asked Questions 
Table of contents 
Understanding Court of Protection orders
Registering Court of Protection orders with HSBC
Troubleshooting and more help
Understanding Court of Protection orders 
1. What is a Court of Protection order? 
A Court of Protection order can be issued when someone loses mental capacity and there is no lasting power of attorney or enduring power of attorney in existence. Further information can be found at GOV.UKGOV.UK This link will open in a new window.
2. Who can apply for a Court of Protection order? 
If you're a friend, relation or know someone who has lost their mental capacity, you can apply to the Court of Protection to become their deputy.
To apply for a Court of Protection order you need to visit the GOV.UKGOV.UK This link will open in a new window website and go to ‘applying to be a deputy’.
Please note: before deciding if a Court of Protection order is right for you, you may want to seek legal advice.
3. What is a deputy? 
A deputy is a person appointed by the Court of Protection to manage the affairs of someone who lacks the mental capacity to manage their own affairs. You can find out more at GOV.UKGOV.UK This link will open in a new window.
Registering a Court of protection order with HSBC 
1. What documents will I need to register a Court of Protection order? 
We'll need to see the full Court of Protection document – either the original, or a certified copy that has been signed and dated by an authorised person (for example, a solicitor or a notary public) at the end of each page to confirm that it's a true and complete copy of the original. We'll also need to see suitable documents for identification and address verification. If multiple deputies are appointed to act 'jointly', every deputy will need to provide suitable identification and address verification. For a list of acceptable documents, please see our help us identify you page.
2. How long does it take to register a Court of Protection order with HSBC? 
Once we have all of the information we need, it will be set up within 10 working days.
3. How do I access phone banking? 
If you've asked for phone access when registering the Court of Protection order with us, we'll post a letter and phone banking pack to the deputy. This explains how to register for phone access. Once you're registered, you can call us if you're the deputy. You'll need to key in the donor's sort code and account number. Then when prompted, key in:
your own date of birth
the digits from your own Telephone Security Number
4. How do I access online and mobile banking? 
Once registered for phone banking, the deputy can apply for online banking once the Court of Protection order has been updated in our records. You can apply in one of our branches or by calling us on 03457 404 404.
To find out more about mobile banking.
Please note: we can only give online banking access to one party at a time (either donor or deputy).
5. How will I know when the Court of Protection order is registered with HSBC? 
We'll confirm this in a letter to the deputy - or the main deputy if there's more than 1.
6. How can I register a Court of Protection order with HSBC? 
For full instructions on how to register your Court of Protection order, please visit our registration page
7. How do I get my documents certified if I live in the UK? 
You'll need to ask a professional person (solicitor or notary) to certify your documents.
Ask your chosen certifier to write the following on the document they're certifying:
'I, <full name of certifier> confirm that this is a true copy of the original document for <full name of customer>.'
Each document must also include:
certifier's signature and full name - they need to sign as an individual not a company
certifier's occupation, company, professional address and phone number, ideally on letter headed paper
certifier's professional registration number, if they have one
date of certification
It's important each document contains this information as we might be unaable to accept them without it. The person signing the document must be active in the profession and can't be a relative, friend or someone who lives at your address. We may contact them for verification.
8. I live in the EU. How do I get my documents certified? 
Ask one of the possible certifiers below to write the relevant statement on each of the documents they verify. If any of the documents is more than 1 page long, ask the certifier to write the statement on the first page and sign any subsequent page.
We can only accept the following certifiers, who must be registered, active and based within the EU:
those working for financial institutions
lawyers
solicitors
notaries
Next, ask your chosen certifier to write this on the document they're certifying:
For documents that contain a photo:
I (full name of certifier) confirm that this is an accurate copy of the original and the photo is a true reflection of the applicant.
For documents that don't contain a photo:
I (full name of certifier) confirm that this is a true copy of the original document for (full name of customer).
Each document must also include:
certifier's signature and full name, they need to sign as an individual not a company
certifier's occupation, company, professional address and phone number, ideally on letter headed paper
certifier's professional registration number if they have one
date of certification
It's important each document contains this information as without it we may not be able to accept them. The person signing the document must be active in the profession and can't be a relative, friend or someone who lives at your address. We may contact them for verification.
Please remember your documents must:
be a certified true copy
be in English or a certified translation to English
certification and translation must be completed by the same person
date of certification must be within the last three months
not be an onl\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/life-events/court-of-protection/faqs/
########Top of main content 
About HSBC Safeguard 
What is HSBC Safeguard? 
In today's technology-driven world, banking security has never been more important. We're constantly putting new and better ways in place to protect our customers' accounts.
This is why we're introducing HSBC Safeguard; a series of initiatives designed to better protect all our customers from fraud and financial crime. To do this effectively, we need a little help from you. We have global systems that deter and detect criminal activity. To work most effectively, these systems rely on having the most up-to-date customer information. Now we need to confirm that the information we have about you is both accurate and current.
How will HSBC Safeguard protect me? 
To detect criminal activity our global systems rely on having your most up-to-date information. We use this information to provide your account with world-class protection against crime.
Why do you suddenly need all this information? Don't you already have it? 
We need this information so that we can protect you and us from financial crime. Knowing who our customers are and understanding how they use their accounts ensures we can do this. To protect us both, we need to ensure that the information is accurate, up-to-date, and complete.
What has financial crime got to do with me? 
Financial crime can affect anyone and everyone. Your support will go a long way to help us make banking safer.
Security has always been important. Why are you asking for more information now? 
Constant changes in technology and the way companies do business has affected the whole banking industry and, in turn, how we protect it. Fraud and financial crime is becoming even more sophisticated and globally organised - so we have to be more vigilant than ever. We need you to help us stay one step ahead of financial crime by providing us with up-to-date information.
My everyday banking won't change, will it? 
No, it won't. Once you've updated your details, the work to protect your account happens behind-the-scenes, so it won't change the way you bank.
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/hsbc-safeguard/faqs/about-hsbc-safeguard/
########Top of main content 
How to avoid romance scams 
Romance scams are among the most common types of fraud. They usually begin with a fast-moving online relationship, but end in financial crime. 
What is a romance scam? 
These scams work by exploiting your emotions. Fraudsters set up fake profiles on dating websites, apps and social media. They try to appeal to your compassionate side and then ask for money. 
Some of the typical reasons they’ll use are:
they want to come to the UK (sometimes with the promise of marriage), but need money to cover the cost of travel 
they have a relative who needs an urgent operation, but can't afford to pay for it 
they have a large inheritance, but can't access the money 
To avoid falling victim to a romance scam, never send money to someone you’ve only met online.
Case study: how one woman was conned out of £100,000
How to spot romance scams 
Fraudsters often go to great lengths to gain your trust, sometimes sending gifts such as flowers, wine or chocolates.
They usually ask for lots of personal information, but share very little about themselves.
Here are some tell-tale signs that you're actually dealing with a fraudster:
they seem to have fallen in love with you rather quickly 
they soon want to leave the dating site or app, to use instant messaging, email or text instead 
they claim to be from the UK, but say they’re away working or travelling 
they plan a visit to see you, but something comes up at the last minute to prevent them from coming 
One of these points on its own may be innocent. But more than one, together with a request for money, can be a sign that it’s a romance scam. 
To find out more about this and other common types of fraud, download our scams leaflet (PDF, 333KB) download our scams leaflet (PDF, 333KB) This link will open in a new window. You can also read updates about the latest scams as we come across them.
How to report a scam 
If you think you've been the victim of a romance scam, make sure you tell us. You should also report it to the dating site or app and to Action Fraud Action Fraud This link will open in a new window.
Check out the government-backed campaign Take Five Take Five This link will open in a new window to find out more about how to guard against financial fraud.
Back to top 
What next? 
How to bank online safely How to bank online safely How to bank safely 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to avoid holiday scams How to avoid holiday scams How to avoid holiday scams 
What is an authorised push payment scam? What is an authorised push payment scam? What is an authorised push payment scam? 
How to create a strong password How to create a strong password How to create a strong password\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/how-to-avoid-romance-scams/
########Top of main content 
HSBC Safeguard and you 
I haven't been contacted, will I be? 
You will receive a letter only if we need you to get in touch. In the meantime, if you'd like to discuss HSBC Safeguard with our team you can contact our Customer Support on 03457 404 404. If you are a Premier customer, please call 03457 70 70 70.
Why do I have to provide all these documents? 
To understand the daily activity on your account, our global systems need your most recent information. This will help us deter any potential risks of fraud and financial crime.

Utility bills
Utility bills are considered one of the safest ways to confirm address details. Online statements can be manipulated, so while we appreciate it can be inconvenient to produce original documents (or certified copies) we need these documents to protect your account from potential misuse.
Passport / ID card
It's important we can verify your identity. A passport or national identity card is often one of the simplest and most readily available documents you can provide. Please note that we will require a certified copy (not the original).
Why do you need information about my income and outgoings? 
We need to understand where funds are coming from and going to as part of our ongoing efforts to protect you and HSBC from fraud and financial crime.
I have a personal account and a business account with HSBC. Why have I just been contact about one of them? 
We are reviewing all HSBC accounts. To keep any inconvenience to a minimum we'll share the information gathered with other areas of the bank in the UK to reduce the number of times you may be contacted.
I am a HSBC customer in more than one country or region. Will I have to provide the same information to you in more than one country/region? 
Laws and regulations vary from location to location, which is why you may have been contacted more than once for the same information. We apologise for any inconvenience but it's important you respond to each request that you have received. To avoid confusion we've kept the information as consistent as possible within the constraints of local regulation.
Do I need to visit my local branch? 
No, not unless you've been specifically asked. By now you may have received a letter from us, which will explain your next steps. If you're still unsure, you can contact our Customer Support team on 03457 404 404. If you're a Premier customer, please call 03457 70 70 70.
What happens if I don't provide the information? 
Ultimately, if we don't receive your up-to-date information we may not be able to provide you with all of our services. We need to ensure you're fully protected from financial fraud and crime - if we don't have the right information, we can't do this.
As soon as we receive your information, we'll update our records, so you won't be contacted again.
When do I have to provide the information by? 
We'll send you reminders and give you sufficient time to provide the information. If you're having trouble gathering information please do let us know as soon as possible so we can help wherever we can. It may, for example, be possible for us to rely on alternative documents in your possession. If you think you may need more time or have any further questions, get in touch with our team on 03457 404 404. If you are a Premier customer, please call 03457 70 70 70.
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/hsbc-safeguard/faqs/hsbc-safeguard-and-you/
########Top of main content 
Everyday budgeting 
Managing your everyday spending successfully can give you real peace of mind. 
How to budget 
A budget is a plan for how you’ll spend your money, including limits for spending on certain things. It's important to know exactly how much money you've got coming in and going out – as well as where it goes. This means you can make your money last and potentially save more each month.
Here's a quick guide to how to create a budget 
Which of the following best describes you? 
Whichever stage you’re at with budgeting, check out our articles, calculators and webinars.
Help me manage my money better 
I’m after tools to help me manage my money 
I’ve already missed a payment or I'm going to miss a payment 
Check your financial fitness score with our easy-to-use calculator 
Knowing how healthy your finances are can help you work out what steps you need to take to achieve your goals. Generate your own or household financial fitness score out of 100 by answering a few quick questions. It takes about 10 minutes, and doesn't affect your credit score in any way.
How it works 
Tell us a few details about your finances - including your spending, borrowing and saving.
We'll calculate your financial fitness score.
You'll also get tips to help you set achievable goals to improve your financial health.
You can use the tool again in future to see if your score has improved.
Calculate my fitness score Calculate my fitness score This link will open in a new window 
How the score is calculated 
Your financial fitness score is based on the information you provide in the financial fitness questionnaire. We don't check this information with any third party sources. The score is out of 100 and considers spending, borrowing, and saving. We’ll then show you where you could make changes to help build your financial fitness. This is a guide only and is not financial advice. Your financial fitness score is separate from your credit score. It doesn’t guarantee that you’ll be successful when applying for new banking and lending products.
Manage your money better 
Here are some useful guides to help you manage your money better
What is the 50:30:20 budget rule?
See if the 50-30-20 budget rule could help guide your spending.
How to stop spending more than you earn
Read these tips to help you avoid making spending decisions that you’ll later regret.
How to manage your bills
Get practical advice on how to stay on top of your money by keeping your bills under control.
Everyday spending hacks to save money
These easy-to-follow tips are aimed at helping you save money without feeling like you're missing out.
What is a safety net?
A financial safety net is an amount of money you have put away for unexpected, one-off expenses.
Getting your budget back on track
If the budget you set yourself has fallen by the wayside, now’s the time to get it back on track.
How to manage on a reduced income
It’s never easy making do with less money. Here are some tips on how to help you stay in control of your finances.
Tools to help you manage your money 
Here are some tools and guides to help you manage your money
Online money management tools 
In some ways, managing your money has never been easier. But with all the technology on offer, it can be difficult to know where to start.
This guide can help you work out which tools might be the best ones for you to help manage your money.
Take a look Take a look at our guide 
Budget planner
Find out how to make a budget planner. Plus, work out where your money goes and see if you can save more.
Check what you’re entitled to
This link will open in a new window 
Billions of pounds of government benefits and allowances are going unclaimed every year.
One of the reasons is that many people don't realise they qualify for them.
Mobile money management
Take a look at our smart money tools in our app help you keep an eye on your spending and stay on top of your finances
Financial health check
Our financial fitness specialists are on hand to speak to you about your banking needs – and you don’t have to be an HSBC customer to benefit from this service.
Explore more
Financial fitness
Our financial fitness hub gives you the tools you need to make your money work harder.
Money worries
We understand that what's happening in your life and the world around you can affect your finances. That's why we're here, so we can help you find a solution for your individual financial needs.
How to manage debt
We can help you explore your options for dealing with debt so you can get your finances back on track.
Grow your money
Building your savings, or starting investing, can be an exciting next step. See some of the different techniques, as well as what the benefits and considerations are.
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/students/managing-your-money-when-you-enter-the-world-of-work/
########Top of main content 
Overdraft repeat use FAQs 
Table of contents 
Why have you contacted me about this and why now?
What do you mean by ‘overdraft repeat use’?
I’ve received a letter about overdraft repeat use. Why is this?
What do I need to do?
Why does it matter if I'm in overdraft repeat use?
Why are you writing to some customers about this, but not others? My friend/family member has an overdraft facility with you but hasn't received a letter about this.
Does this mean that customers who aren't in repeat use aren't entitled to any support?
Have I done anything wrong?
I’ve kept to my Arranged Overdraft agreement, why are you writing to me about using my overdraft?
What's the best way to reduce repeated use of my overdraft?
Are there any other ways to help me manage my finances?
Are there other products which offer better interest rates?
Will you stop me from using my overdraft?
Where can I get help if I'm worried about my finances?
How much will the debt advisory agencies charge me?
Why have you contacted me about this and why now? 
As a responsible lender, we regularly review our customers’ overdrafts. If we see that an overdraft is being used very regularly, we’ll get in touch to make you aware you may be incurring high and avoidable costs, and to ask you to try to avoid this in future. We may also be able to help you avoid this.
What do you mean by ‘overdraft repeat use’? 
Repeat use refers to a pattern of overdraft use where the frequency and depth of use may result in high cumulative charges that are harmful to the customer or indicate that the customer is experiencing or at risk of financial difficulties.
I’ve received a letter about overdraft repeat use. Why is this? 
We wrote to you to bring the costs of your overdraft use to your attention and ask you to take steps to reduce usage. We'll also provide support.
We provide information to help you review your monthly commitments, and let you know where you can get free and impartial help if you ever need it.
Generally, the longer you use your overdraft the more it will cost overall. By reducing overdraft use, you could save money.
What do I need to do? 
You’ll need to reduce your overdraft use. Using your overdraft less should mean you’re charged less. We’ll write to you again 6 months after the first letter to let you know how you’re getting on. We'll confirm that you're either:
no longer considered in repeat use
still considered in repeat use, in which case, we’ll keep communicating with you
Why does it matter if I'm in overdraft repeat use? 
Overdrafts are designed for short-term borrowing. Using an overdraft too much or on a long-term basis could mean it takes you longer to clear your outstanding balance. This will cost you more in the long run.
Why are you writing to some customers about this, but not others? My friend/family member has an overdraft with you but hasn't received a letter. 
We’re only writing to customers who are in repeat use. It may be that your friend/family member hasn’t used their overdraft facility repeatedly. If they have, then we’ll write to them at the appropriate time.
Does this mean that customers who aren't in repeat use aren't entitled to any support? 
All customers can ask for support with managing their money. A lot of the information we provide could be useful whether you’re in repeat use or not. For example, it could be worth reviewing how you use your overdraft and what you pay in interest to help you change the way you use it.
Have I done anything wrong? 
If you're within your overdraft limit, you haven’t done anything wrong. However, you may be paying more than you need to in interest, which is why we’re letting you know and encouraging you to review and reduce your overdraft usage.
I’ve kept to my Arranged Overdraft agreement, why are you writing to me about using my overdraft? 
Even if you haven't exceeded your arranged overdraft limit, your use could be causing you to incur high avoidable charges. 
If you decide not to change the way you use your overdraft, we may take certain steps as a responsible lender. This could include reducing, suspending or removing your overdraft facility.
What's the best way to reduce repeated use of my overdraft? 
There are different ways to reduce repeated overdraft use. Some examples are:
review your monthly commitments - this can help you to reduce or remove unnecessary expenditure
reduce the number of days each month you use your overdraft - this can make a difference, even if only a few days
create a budget that looks at your earning and spending to help you identify where your money is going and where you may want to make changes
reducing your overdraft by transferring funds in from any other accounts you may have
have a look at other borrowing options that could meet your long-term borrowing needs - this may help to reduce your monthly interest charges
if you need further support reducing your overdraft usage, contact our specialist team on 03450 307263 for help with avoiding repeat overdraft use
Are there any ways to help me manage my finances? 
There are a number of ways you can reduce spending or increase your income. Some examples are:
reviewing your tax codes. Visit gov.uk/guidance/hmrc-tools-and-calculatorsgov.uk/guidance/hmrc-tools-and-calculatorsgov.uk/guidance/hmrc-tools-and-calculatorsgov.uk/guidance/hmrc-tools-and-calculators This link will open in a new window to check you're paying the right tax
checking you’re receiving all the benefits that you’re entitled to. Visit gov.uk/benefits-calculatorsgov.uk/benefits-calculatorsgov.uk/benefits-calculatorsgov.uk/benefits-calculators This link will open in a new window
checking for any tax credits you might qualify for. Visit gov.uk/tax-credits-calculatorgov.uk/tax-credits-calculatorgov.uk/tax-credits-calculatorgov.uk/tax-credits-calculator This link will open in a new window
reviewing your utility bills. You may be able to make big savings by switching provider or just changing tariffs. There are\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/overdrafts/overdraft-repeat-use-faqs/
########Top of main content 
How to avoid holiday scams 
The last thing you want when you head away on holiday is to find out you haven’t actually booked your flight or hotel room. 
Unfortunately, there are many hotel, villa and flight scams that promise great holidays which aren’t real. 
Either the holiday (or parts of it) doesn’t exist, or it does exist but a fraudster has sold it to you. You might not realise you’ve been scammed until the flight tickets don’t work. Or you might turn up at the resort, airport or cruise terminal, only to find you’ve lost your money. 
Ways to spot a holiday scam 
As with many types of fraud, you should be suspicious of anything that looks too good to be true. Be wary of any holiday offers which are unusually cheap or ask for a high deposit.
How do you know if a holiday website is genuine? 
Spend time researching holidays advertised privately to make sure they're not fake. 
You can look for online reviews and recommendations to check the accommodation really exists.
How do you know if a travel agency is real? 
Check that any travel agents or tour operators you're dealing with belong to a reputable trade association. This could be ABTA or the Air Travel Organiser’s Licence (ATOL) scheme.
How do you book a holiday online safely? 
There are ways you can safeguard your money. Try following these tips when booking your holiday:
use safe sites when shopping online 
use safe ways to pay, such as your credit card wherever possible as there's more chance you'll get your money back if something goes wrong (however, be aware that credit cards are subject to interest and fees if you don't pay off the balance in full each month) 
check the cancellations policy before booking 
keep records of payment confirmations and receipts 
if you make an online payment, don't follow a link in an email but type in a website address you know to be correct 
make sure any payment page begins with ‘https’ and shows a padlock symbol, which means the communication link between you and the website is secure (but remember, the padlock doesn't guarantee an authentic site) 
Back to top 
What next? 
Make sure you and your money are holiday-ready 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Find out about the latest scams 
How one woman was conned out of £100,000 
How to avoid remote access takeover\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/how-to-avoid-holiday-scams/
########Top of main content 
Credit cards vs loans: funding options explained 
If you want to borrow money or need to make sure you have money available there are a couple of common paths you can take – two of which are credit cards and personal loans. 
Things to think about before you borrow 
When it comes to borrowing, one of the first things you need to consider is what you can afford. 
Over time, you need to pay:
the balance – the amount you originally borrowed 
any interest payable – an extra percentage charged every month, or year 
any fees and charges applied 
It's also important to know that any prospective repayments of over 12 months will impact the amount you may be able to borrow for a mortgage.
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download Transcript Download Transcript This link will open in a new window 
Credit cards and personal loans compared 
Credit cards are a line of credit that offer:
flexible borrowing – you can spend any amount up to a set limit 
flexible repayments – at the end of the statement period you can pay off an amount between the full balance and the compulsory minimum payment (the more you repay the less interest you’ll be charged) 
introductory interest rates – there may be an interest-free period for purchases, however interest will then be charged if you don't pay off your balance within this period 
lower limits – generally credit cards provide lower borrowing limits than personal loans, so larger borrowing needs may be constrained 
security – under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act, for purchases between £100 to £30,000, your card issuer will help you get your money back if your seller doesn't deliver your goods, or goes bankrupt, and there are checks to make sure it’s actually you using the card 
Personal loans are a way to make a big upfront purchase that offer:
a set amount – you can borrow the amount you need for a project or purchase 
a fixed term – you pay the money back in instalments over a set time (often several years) 
predictable interest rate and repayments – if you opt for a fixed-rate loan, your interest rate can be set at one rate for the entire repayment period 
higher loan amounts – may allow for larger borrowing needs than credit cards 
When it may be suitable to apply for a credit card 
Scenario 1: You’re looking to borrow a smaller amount that you can repay within the interest-free period.
Let's say you need to spend £1,000 to go to a family member’s overseas wedding. If you're confident you'll pay back £100 every month, you should pay off the debt within a year. If you opt for a credit card with 0% interest on purchases in the first 18 months, you'll pay no interest at all.
However, if you find yourself outside the 0% interest period, or using the credit card to buy other things, you may have to pay interest and the interest rate may be higher than on a personal loan.
Scenario 2: You don’t need to use the money for anything urgent, but want it on hand in case of an emergency.
Having a credit card, rather than a personal loan, in this instance means that you won’t pay any interest unless you use the money.
When it may be suitable to apply for a personal loan 
Scenario 1: You need to borrow a larger amount that you would like to repay over several years.
And/or:
Scenario 2: You would like structured, regular repayments.
And/or:
Scenario 3: You would like to lock in your interest rate for the term of the personal loan.
Let's say you need to spend £6,000 to install a new kitchen. 
You can afford to pay back £2,000 per year, so you agree with your lender to repay the loan over three years. You'll pay interest, but it's usually lower than credit card interest and you have structured repayments so you can include them in your monthly budget knowing they won’t change.
What else do you need to know? 
Other borrowing options are available. Take a look at more ways to borrow.
Too many applications could indicate to lenders you're struggling for money. 
If you just want to compare rates, ask your lender to do a 'quotation search' instead of a 'credit application search'. This means it won’t show up on your credit profile.
Explore more: Hard vs soft credit checks: what's the difference?
Back to top 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How do credit cards work? 
Quick guide to personal loans 
What is the Annual Percentage Rate?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/credit-card-vs-loans/
########Top of main content 
What is an authorised push payment scam? 
If a criminal tricks you into transferring money to them, it’s known as an authorised push payment (APP) scam. 
It differs from other types of fraud, where criminals get access to accounts and steal money without the account holder’s knowledge.
With APP scams, criminals often try to persuade you to take action in a hurry. They make you panic before you have time to think it through properly.
To help protect you from fraud, we've signed up to a voluntary code to combat APP scams voluntary code to combat APP scams This link will open in a new window, agreed with the Lending Standards Board.
Here are some typical APP scams and warning signs to beware of:
Invoice and mandate scam
This scam starts with the victim trying to pay an invoice to a genuine payee. The criminal intervenes to convince the victim to redirect the payment to an account they control. Criminals can pose as conveyancing solicitors, builders or other tradespeople. They might also target businesses by posing as a supplier. In both cases, they claim the bank account details have changed. With this type of fraud, the criminal often either intercepts emails or compromises an email account.

CEO fraud
This is where the scammer impersonates the chief executive officer (CEO) or other high-ranking official of an organisation. They then try to convince you to make an urgent payment to the scammer’s account. This type of fraud mostly affects businesses.
Impersonation scam – police or organisations
In this scam, a criminal gets in touch and pretends to be from the police or the victim’s bank. They convince their victim to make a payment to an account they control. They might also claim to represent a utility company or government department. Common scams include bogus claims that the victim must settle a fine, pay overdue tax or return a refund. Sometimes the criminal asks for remote access to the victim’s computer as part of the scam, claiming they need to help ‘fix’ a problem.

Impersonation scam – family or friends
Here, the fraudster pretends to be a family member or someone the victim knows. They then usually go on to make up a story and ask the victim to make a bank transfer. These requests generally come from social media, text messages or other instant messaging platforms.

Purchase scam
This is when you pay in advance for goods or services that are never received. These scams usually involve the victim using an online platform such as an auction website or social media.
Find out more about purchase scams.
Investment scam
A criminal convinces you to move your money to a fund that doesn't exist or to pay for a fake investment. The criminal will usually promise a high return. These scams include investment in items such as gold, property, carbon credits, cryptocurrencies, land banks and wine.
Read more about investment scams and cloned companies.

Romance scam
Fraudsters will use fake profiles on social media or dating websites to target their victims. They try to start a relationship and develop it over a long period of time. Once they've established their victim’s trust, the criminal will then claim to have a problem, such as an issue with a visa, health issues or flight tickets and ask for money to help.
Read more about how to avoid romance scams.

Advance fee scam
In this type of scam, a criminal convinces you to pay a fee that they claim will result in the release of a much larger payment or high value goods. These scams include claims that you've won an overseas lottery, that gold or jewellery is being held at customs or that an inheritance is due. The fraudster tells you a fee must be paid first. When the payment is made, the promised goods or money never materialise. These scams often begin with an email or a letter sent by the criminal to the victim.
Back to top 
What next? 
Watch out for the latest scams 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to avoid holiday scams 
How to create a strong password 
How to avoid vaccine scams\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/what-is-an-authorised-push-payment-scam/
########Top of main content 
What is negative equity? 
Negative equity is when your property is worth less than what you owe on your mortgage and other loans secured against your home. 
Here, we explain what being in negative equity means and what you can do about it.
How does negative equity affect you?
What can you do if you’re in negative equity?
How can you avoid negative equity?
How does negative equity affect you? 
Equity is the value of your property, minus what you owe on your mortgage. In other words, it’s the amount that you own.
Negative equity is often caused by falling property prices. If the value of your house or flat falls – you could owe more than your home is currently worth. 
For example, if you bought a house for £300,000 with a mortgage of £270,000 and the property is now worth £250,000 – you would be in negative equity. 
Remember – owning a home is a long-term investment and property prices can go up and down. 
If you’re able to meet the mortgage repayments, negative equity isn’t necessarily an immediate problem. It becomes an issue if you want to sell, switch mortgage rates or remortgage with a new lender.
Can you sell a property with negative equity? 
You’ll need your mortgage lender's permission before selling a property in negative equity.
Selling your home with negative equity will mean you’ll have an outstanding amount on the mortgage – plus any other loans secured against your home – that you’ll need to pay back after the sale. 
If you don’t have the funds available to pay the shortfall, it may be difficult for you to sell.
Can you switch rates or remortgage with negative equity? 
Many lenders are unable to loan you more money than your home is worth. This can mean your options are limited when it comes to switching your rate or mortgage lender.
When your current mortgage deal ends, you may need to move onto your existing lender’s standard variable rate (SVR) until the situation improves. Some lenders do still allow you to switch mortgage rates, even with negative equity.
Keep in mind – the interest rates on SVR mortgages tend to be higher than most mortgage options, so your monthly repayments may increase. 
What can you do if you’re in negative equity? 
Wait for your equity to build 
If you’re only in negative equity by a small amount, it may prove temporary. A rise in property prices could take your equity back above zero. 
Regardless of the current value of your home, continue to make your mortgage payments as normal. If you don’t need to sell the property, you can stay put and wait for your equity to build. 
Make overpayments where possible 
If you can afford to – and your mortgage allows it – you may be able to pay more towards your mortgage. As your mortgage balance reduces, it will give you a lower loan-to-value (LTV) ratio – reducing your negative equity. 
Many lenders allow you to overpay up to a certain limit without incurring an early repayment charge (ERC) but not all do. It's important to check with your lender, especially the annual amount of overpayment allowed. For example, some lenders allow 10% of the mortgage balance to be paid as an overpayment per year.
Get help and support 
Being in negative equity can put you in a tricky financial situation but help is available. For example, if you need to sell your home, or your existing mortgage deal is coming to an end, your lender can discuss your options with you. 
If you're worried about paying your HSBC mortgage, we can help you put a plan in place.
How can you avoid negative equity? 
If you’re buying a property, and you’re worried about going into negative equity, here are a few things you can do to try and avoid it. 
Question the price of the property 
Before you make an offer on a property, it’s important to work out what you can sensibly afford and question whether the property is worth the price the seller is asking for. 
Research the value of similar properties in the area to make sure you’re not overpaying. And factor in any potential work that’ll need to be done to the property once you buy it. 
It’s a good idea to arrange an independent survey. This can give you clear and impartial advice about the condition of a property.
Pay a bigger deposit 
The larger your home deposit, the more equity you’ll have in the property.
It’s not always easy to save for a house deposit, but if you can increase the amount you put down – you’re less likely to fall into negative equity. 
Consider your repayment options carefully 
When deciding on a mortgage, you have payment choices to make:
interest-only mortgage 
capital repayment mortgage 
Interest-only mortgages can increase the risk of negative equity. This is because you only ever pay the interest charged on the amount you borrow – not the capital. Because you’re not paying off your mortgage amount, you don’t build equity in your home, so a fall in property prices could put you at risk.
You should review your repayment strategy regularly to make sure it will repay your mortgage balance by the end of your mortgage term.
With a capital repayment mortgage, your repayments include the borrowed capital, as well as interest – to make sure your mortgage is fully paid off at the end of the mortgage period. 
If you’re trying to avoid negative equity, a repayment mortgage may be more suitable. 
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home. 
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
Understand more about mortgages and property 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to calculate home equity 
Help with mortgage payments as living costs rise 
How rising living costs affect home buyers\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/what-is-negative-equity/
########Top of main content 
FX Viewpoint: JPY: A modest recovery in 2024 
8 Jan 2024
Key takeaways 
After three consecutive years of weakness, the JPY is set to recover this year, albeit modestly … 
… as markets have already built in expectations for interest rates to increase in Japan and fall in the US. 
A capitulation of short JPY speculative positions and lifers’ FX hedging should be supportive for the JPY. 
After three straight years of weakness, the JPY is likely to recover modestly in 2024 
2023 marked the third consecutive year of outsized declines in the JPY, losing 7%1Footnote link 1 against the USD, after the declines of 12.2% and 10.3% in 2022 and 2021, respectively. This was driven mainly by widening US-Japan yield differentials over years (Chart 1). However, 2024 may be different for the currency.
Interest rates are expected to rise in Japan and fall in the US 
Indeed, a rapid narrowing of US-Japan yield differentials last month drove USD-JPY 4.8% lower, making the JPY the second-best-performing G10 currency in December 2023 (while the NOK topped the list amid a surprise rate hike by the Norges Bank). In our view, the compression of the yield differentials may slow from here, as markets have already built in expectations for the Bank of Japan’s (BoJ) policy normalisation and the Federal Reserve’s (Fed) rate cuts in 2024 (Chart 2).
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
Will it be a ‘buy the rumour, sell the fact’ situation for the JPY? 
Nevertheless, it is worth noting that the JPY underperformed during the BoJ’s last tightening cycle in July 2006 to February 2007, even though the Fed had finished raising rates. Based on this history, the risk is that USD-JPY once again follows this pattern whereby it falls sharply initially in anticipation of the BoJ’s rate hikes, only to rebound subsequently once the rate hikes have been fully priced in.
A capitulation of short JPY speculative positions and lifers’ FX hedging could support the JPY 
As such, we think two other developments are also needed for the JPY to recover sustainably in 2024: a rebuilding of FX hedging by Japanese life insurers (known as “lifers”) and a capitulation of short-JPY speculative positions among leveraged funds. In our view, if (i) the Fed cuts rates; (ii) the BoJ raises rates; and/or (iii) there is a strong “safe haven” demand for the JPY, lifers may moderately increase their FX hedge ratios in 2024 and leveraged funds may cover or even flip their positions from being short JPY to being long JPY.
All things considered, we expect the JPY to have a modest recovery, rather than a sharp rebound, in 2024.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
${after-trio-of-rate-holds-usd-on-the-defensive:editorialBodyTitle} 
${after-trio-of-rate-holds-usd-on-the-defensive:editorialBodyShortDescription} 
${aud-and-cad-diverging-paths:editorialBodyTitle} 
${aud-and-cad-diverging-paths:editorialBodyShortDescription} 
FX Trends: Most G10 currencies in consolidation mode 
The “risk-on” mood and associated USD weakness could risk conflating a US soft-landing with a...[27 Nov] 
${a-flight-to-safe-haven-currencies:editorialBodyTitle} 
${a-flight-to-safe-haven-currencies:editorialBodyShortDescription} 
Disclosure appendix 
Important disclosures
This document is for information purposes only and it should not be regarded as an offer to sell or as a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or other investment products mentioned in it and/or to participate in any trading strategy. Information in this document is general and should not be construed as personal advice, given it has been prepared without taking account of the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular investor. Accordingly, investors should, before acting on it, consider the appropriateness of the information, having regard to their objectives, financial situation and needs. If necessary, seek professional investment and tax advice.
Certain investment products mentioned in this document may not be eligible for sale in some states or countries, and they may not be suitable for all types of investors. Investors should consult with their HSBC representative regarding the suitability of the investment products mentioned in this document and take into account their specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs before making a commitment to purchase investment products.
The value of and the income produced by the investment products mentioned in this document may fluctuate, so that an investor may get back less than originally invested. Certain high-volatility investments can be subject to sudden and large falls in value.
that could equal or exceed the amount invested. Value and income from investment products may be adversely affected by exchange rates, interest rates, or other factors. Past performance of a particular investment product is not indicative of future results.
HSBC and its affiliates will from time to time sell to and buy from customers the securities/instruments (including derivatives) of companies covered in HSBC Research on a principal or agency basis.
Whether, or in what time frame, an update of this analysis will be published is not determined in advance.
Additional disclosures
1. This report is dated as at 05 January 2023.
2. All market data included in this report are dated as at close 04 January 2023, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report.
3. HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research business. HSBC's analysts and its other staff who are involved in the preparation and dissemination of Research operate and have a management reporting line independent of HSBC's Investment Banking business. Information Barrier procedures are in place between the Investment Banking, Principal Trading, and Research businesses to ensure that any confidential and/or price sen\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/fx-insights/fx-viewpoint/2024-01-08/
########Top of main content 
Manage your debt 
Read our helpful guides to reduce your debt and start saving 
Video Player is loading.
Play Video
Play
Mute
Current Time 0:00
/
Duration 0:00
Loaded: 0%
Stream Type LIVE
Seek to live, currently behind liveLIVE
Remaining Time -0:00
1x
Playback Rate
Chapters
Chapters
Descriptions
descriptions off, selected
Subtitles
subtitles settings, opens subtitles settings dialog
subtitles off, selected
English Captions
English Captions
Audio Track
Picture-in-PictureFullscreen
Download transcript (PDF, 26.1KB) Download transcript (PDF, 26.1KB) This link will open in a new window 
How to prioritise debt 
We understand that what's happening in your life and the world around you can affect your finances. Whether you prefer to read our guides, use our calculators or even book in on a webinar or speak to someone direct, we have you covered to help you find a solution for your individual financial needs.
Which of the following best describes you? 
Whichever stage you’re at with debt, we’ve articles, calculators and webinars to help you.
I'm with HSBC and I've already missed or am going to miss payments 
I need to know more about how borrowing works 
Help me get out of debt 
I need further tools and guidance to help me manage debt 
Check your financial fitness score with our easy-to-use calculator 
How it works 
Tell us a few details about your finances - including your spending, borrowing and saving.
We'll calculate your financial fitness score.
You'll also get tips to help you set achievable goals to improve your financial health.
You can use the tool again in future to see if your score has improved.
Calculate my fitness score Calculate my fitness score This link will open in a new window 
How the score is calculated 
Your financial fitness score is based on the information you provide in the financial fitness questionnaire. We don't check this information with any third party sources. The score is out of 100 and considers spending, borrowing, and saving. We’ll then show you where you could make changes to help build your financial fitness. This is a guide only and is not financial advice. Your financial fitness score is separate from your credit score. It doesn’t guarantee that you’ll be successful when applying for new banking and lending products.
How does borrowing work? 
Here are some useful guides to help you understand more about borrowing
What is debt consolidation?
A debt consolidation loan can help you bring your debts together and create a simple repayment plan.
Should you save or repay debts?
Look at when you may want to focus on debts and when it could be worth prioritising your savings.
Buy now pay later
Find out how buy now pay later (BNPL) works and whether it might affect your credit score.
Ways to borrow
Take a look at your options so you can find the one that suits you.
What is APR?
Find out more about APR, how it’s calculated and why it matters.
How to use a balance transfer
See how to use a balance transfer credit card in a cost-effective way.
How to build your credit score
Here are some ways you can boost your credit score and increase your chances of being accepted for credit.
Invest or repay your debts?
The answer's not always black and white.
Help me get out of debt 
We can help you explore your options for dealing with debt so you can get your finances back on track.
How to repay debts faster 
The faster you clear your debt, the less interest you’ll pay. Here are some tips on how to speed things up without dramatically changing your spending.
How to talk about money
Talking about money can help reduce stress, manage your finances and reach your goals.
What to do if you fall behind on debt repayments
Find out what steps you can take to help you get back on track.
Persistent debt
Get help if you're in persistent debt on your credit card over an 18-month period
What is a loan shark
This article tells you about illegal lending and what to do if you have borrowed from a loan shark.
More help with managing debt 
We've created some step-by-step guides and interactive tools to help you manage your money
Book a financial health check
This link will open in a new window 
Our experienced financial health specialists are available to speak to you about your banking and financial needs.
Book onto one of our webinars
Our free webinars will give you the insight, knowledge and tools to help manage your debt.
Credit card repayment calculator
See how quickly you could pay off your credit card by increasing your payments.
Check what you're entitled to
This link will open in a new window 
Billions of pounds of government benefits and allowances are going unclaimed every year.
One of the reasons is that many people don't realise they qualify for them.
There are a number of independent organisations who can provide help and give general advice about managing money.
You can find out about free independent money advisers in your area from:
Citizens AdviceCitizens Advice This link will open in a new window
The MoneyHelper Advice serviceThe MoneyHelper Advice service This link will open in a new window
National DebtlineNational Debtline This link will open in a new window
StepChange Debt CharityStepChange Debt Charity This link will open in a new window
Explore more
Money worries
This link will open in a new window 
We understand that what's happening in your life and the world around you can affect your finances. That's why we're here, so we can help you find a solution for your own financial needs.
How to budget
Managing your everyday spending successfully can give you real peace of mind. Check out these helpful tips, including planning a budget and making good financial decisions.
Financial fitness
This link will open in a new window 
Our financial fitness hub gives you the tools you need to help work your money harder.
Plan ahead
Smart money tools in our app can help you keep an eye on your spending and stay on top of your finances.
Customer support
It's easy to a\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/coronavirus/managing-debts/
########Top of main content 
FX Viewpoint Flash: Gold soars but pitfalls lie ahead 
11 Jan 2024
Key takeaways 
The price of gold hit a new high in December 2023 and has remained well above USD2,000 per ounce so far this year… 
…supported by USD weakness, geopolitical risks, and the expectation of Fed rate cuts… 
but some of these factors may be less bullish later in the year; and record high prices may curb physical demand. 
Gold bullishness may be overstretched, with the balance of risks to the downside, in our precious metals analyst’s view 
The price of gold hit a record high of USD2,135 per ounce in December 2023 and has remained well above USD2,000 per ounce so far this year. The rally has been fuelled by USD weakness (Chart 1), elevated geopolitical risks, and market expectations around potential Federal Reserve (Fed) rate cuts. While market sentiment is bullish, our precious metals analyst thinks that the price of gold is overstretched and may decline over the near term in the absence of notable economic or political news. The high price of gold is also limiting demand for jewellery, coins, and bars, mainly in price-sensitive emerging markets, but also in less price-sensitive western markets.
Should the Fed “disappoint” on rate cuts, the price of gold may decline 
Besides, market expectations of Fed rate cuts amounting to c138bp (Bloomberg, 9 January 2024) are well above what the Fed’s dot plot implies, as well as our economists’ forecast for 75bp worth of cuts. Should the scale of these anticipated cuts not fully materialise, then the price of gold may backtrack.
Gold is historically sensitive to US real rates, and while there has been a significant disconnect in this relationship, our precious metals analyst thinks that positive real rates could be a headwind for gold this year (Chart 2).
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
Gold prices and the USD generally move inversely to each other 
As for the USD, it will probably bear heavily on the direction of the price of gold, as gold and the USD generally move inversely to each other (Chart 1). Should the USD rebound, gold prices may face downward pressure; but a sustained USD weakness should be gold-positive.
Geopolitical risk and central bank demand can sustain the price of gold at historically high levels 
That being said, a number of bedrock factors will sustain the price of gold at what would still be a historically high level, in our precious metals analyst’s view. For example, geopolitical and trade risks are elevated and may stay high in 2024, as 75 nations hold elections, lending underlying support to gold prices. And central bank demand remains historically strong, triggered by geopolitical risks and portfolio diversification needs, but may not be fully sustained at price levels above USD2,000 per ounce.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
FX Viewpoint: JPY: A modest recovery in 2024 
After three consecutive years of weakness, the JPY is set to recover this year, albeit…[8 Jan] 
${after-trio-of-rate-holds-usd-on-the-defensive:editorialBodyTitle} 
${after-trio-of-rate-holds-usd-on-the-defensive:editorialBodyShortDescription} 
${aud-and-cad-diverging-paths:editorialBodyTitle} 
${aud-and-cad-diverging-paths:editorialBodyShortDescription} 
FX Trends: Most G10 currencies in consolidation mode 
The “risk-on” mood and associated USD weakness could risk conflating a US soft-landing with a...[27 Nov] 
Disclosure appendix 
Important disclosures
This document is for information purposes only and it should not be regarded as an offer to sell or as a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or other investment products mentioned in it and/or to participate in any trading strategy. Information in this document is general and should not be construed as personal advice, given it has been prepared without taking account of the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular investor. Accordingly, investors should, before acting on it, consider the appropriateness of the information, having regard to their objectives, financial situation and needs. If necessary, seek professional investment and tax advice.
Certain investment products mentioned in this document may not be eligible for sale in some states or countries, and they may not be suitable for all types of investors. Investors should consult with their HSBC representative regarding the suitability of the investment products mentioned in this document and take into account their specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs before making a commitment to purchase investment products.
The value of and the income produced by the investment products mentioned in this document may fluctuate, so that an investor may get back less than originally invested. Certain high-volatility investments can be subject to sudden and large falls in value.
that could equal or exceed the amount invested. Value and income from investment products may be adversely affected by exchange rates, interest rates, or other factors. Past performance of a particular investment product is not indicative of future results.
HSBC and its affiliates will from time to time sell to and buy from customers the securities/instruments (including derivatives) of companies covered in HSBC Research on a principal or agency basis.
Whether, or in what time frame, an update of this analysis will be published is not determined in advance.
Additional disclosures
1. This report is dated as at 10 January 2023.
2. All market data included in this report are dated as at close 09 January 2023, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report.
3. HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research business. HSBC's analysts and its other staff who are involved in the preparation and dissemination of Research operate and have a management reporting line independent\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/fx-insights/fx-viewpoint/flash-2024-01-10/
########Top of main content 
FX Viewpoint: USD: Not run out of the gas yet 
15 Jan 2024
Key takeaways 
Loosening global financial conditions and buoyant risk appetite have seen a sharp move lower in the USD lately… 
…but this may not continue, in our view. 
The USD is likely to remain strong in the months ahead. 
Loosening global financial conditions and buoyant risk appetite have weighed on the USD recently… 
Core inflation pressures have receded in the US, UK, and Europe, leading to market expectations that these central banks will embark upon a large reduction in their policy rates in the months ahead (Chart 1). In some way the shift lower by short-term bond yields suggests a considerable easing in global financial conditions. As such, recovery in risk appetite (using the global equity index as a proxy) has seen a sharp move lower in the USD (Chart 2).
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
Source: Bloomberg, HSBC 
…but this may not continue 
If such easing of global financial conditions continues and this leads to an improvement in global growth expectations, then the case for broad USD weakness could become even more compelling. We cannot ignore this risk completely but there are counter arguments that we embrace.
There could be greater differentiation of potential monetary policy outcomes 
First, it is possible that the implicit ‘coordinated easing’ by markets simply loses steam. This happened last year with the discounting of sizeable rate cuts initially before those views were tempered (Chart 1). An associated line of reasoning is how many central banks were slow to respond to higher inflation pressures, and hence the opposite could also hold true. If this is the case, then the positive tone by risk appetite in recent months could subside and benefit the USD.
When the ECB and BoE pivot,downward pressure on the EUR and GBP should materialise 
Second, the Federal Reserve’s (Fed) dovish pivot could also soon be followed by other central banks that have not yet done so, namely the European Central Bank (ECB) and the Bank of England (BoE). We believe this should weigh on the EUR and GBP against the USD and some other currencies like the JPY.
Global growth is likely to remain soft 
Third, the Fed’s rate cuts could engineer a US soft landing, which is not a clear-cut USD negative, in particular if the US economy recovers, while others are stuck in a slow gear. Global growth is expected to remain soft, rather than turn for the better.
The USD is likely to stay strong in the months ahead 
In summary, the USD will not be strengthening against most other currencies, like it did when the Fed was in a rapid hiking cycle, but it has not run out of gas yet. We expect the USD to outperform the EUR and GBP, but to underperform the JPY and some commodity currencies, like the CAD and AUD.
Back to top 
Share 
email 
copyToClipboard 
Related Insights 
FX Trends: Markets to realise a shallower easing path 
Market thoughts of a shallower global easing cycle should support the ‘safe-haven’ USD…[19 Jan] 
FX Viewpoint Flash: Gold soars but pitfalls lie ahead 
The price of gold hit a new high in December 2023 and has remained well above USD2,000 per...[11 Jan] 
Disclosure appendix 
Important disclosures
This document is for information purposes only and it should not be regarded as an offer to sell or as a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities or other investment products mentioned in it and/or to participate in any trading strategy. Information in this document is general and should not be construed as personal advice, given it has been prepared without taking account of the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular investor. Accordingly, investors should, before acting on it, consider the appropriateness of the information, having regard to their objectives, financial situation and needs. If necessary, seek professional investment and tax advice.
Certain investment products mentioned in this document may not be eligible for sale in some states or countries, and they may not be suitable for all types of investors. Investors should consult with their HSBC representative regarding the suitability of the investment products mentioned in this document and take into account their specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs before making a commitment to purchase investment products.
The value of and the income produced by the investment products mentioned in this document may fluctuate, so that an investor may get back less than originally invested. Certain high-volatility investments can be subject to sudden and large falls in value.
that could equal or exceed the amount invested. Value and income from investment products may be adversely affected by exchange rates, interest rates, or other factors. Past performance of a particular investment product is not indicative of future results.
HSBC and its affiliates will from time to time sell to and buy from customers the securities/instruments (including derivatives) of companies covered in HSBC Research on a principal or agency basis.
Whether, or in what time frame, an update of this analysis will be published is not determined in advance.
Additional disclosures
1. This report is dated as at 12 January 2023.
2. All market data included in this report are dated as at close 11 January 2023, unless a different date and/or a specific time of day is indicated in the report.
3. HSBC has procedures in place to identify and manage any potential conflicts of interest that arise in connection with its Research business. HSBC's analysts and its other staff who are involved in the preparation and dissemination of Research operate and have a management reporting line independent of HSBC's Investment Banking business. Information Barrier procedures are in place between the Investment Banking, Principal Trading, and Research businesses to ensure that any confidential and/or price sensitive information is handled in an appropriate manner.
4. You a\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/wealth/insights/fx-insights/fx-viewpoint/2024-01-15/
########Top of main content 
How to avoid remote access takeover 
Fraudsters may try to convince you to give them remote access to your computer and your online banking. 
This is known as remote access takeover, or computer access takeover. If this happens, the criminals will be able to access all your files and see what you’re typing. They may even be able to turn on your webcam or microphone to spy on you. 
How does remote access takeover work? 
With this type of scam, someone may call you out of the blue, claiming to be your bank, an internet or utility company, or even the police.
They’ll try to convince you to give them remote access to your computer. They may say they can help with something like a slow internet connection, or fix a virus. The fraudsters may also ask you to download software, visit a specific website or follow instructions which give them control.
The scammers may offer a refund for your inconvenience. They’ll then try to persuade you to log on to online banking to check you've received the money. The scammer will still have remote access, meaning they can see everything you’re typing – including your online banking log on details.
They may also ask you for a code sent by the bank (from your Secure Key for HSBC customers) so they can ‘process the refund’. Handing this information over gives them everything they need to move money from your account.
In some cases, the scammers may move money between your accounts so it looks like they’ve sent too much. They’ll then convince you to send it back to them. In reality it’ll be your own money you’re ‘returning’ to them.
We'll never ask you to do any of this - and neither will the police or internet and utility companies.
How to stay safe from this type of scam 
Here are some steps you can take to help make sure your money is secure:
don’t give access to your computer to anyone you don’t know 
be careful how you share your personal information 
if someone has remote access to your computer, don’t log on to online banking or anything else which could allow them to gain access to any passwords, security information or log on details 
don’t pass on security codes, Secure Key codes or one-time passcodes to anyone 
keep your anti-virus software up to date 
Read our page on the latest scams for more on how you can help protect yourself from fraud. 
What to do if you’ve been the victim of a remote access scam 
If you've given remote access to someone in this way, you should take these steps.
For laptops and desktop computers:
Immediately switch off, preferably at the power source. 
Disconnect from the internet - for example, move out of range of your Wi-Fi router or unplug the internet cable. 
For mobile phones:
Disable or switch off the 3G, 4G or 5G signal on your phone. 
Move out of range of any Wi-Fi router. 
This is the only way to stop them being able to connect so you can regain full control. A remote access connection will work over any available internet connection, so simply restarting or rebooting won't be enough to block fraudsters. 
Once you're back in control, you must delete any remote access software that you’ve installed.
Back to top 
What next? 
See more things you can do to stay safe online 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Latest scam warnings 
How to create a strong password 
Is digital banking secure?\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/security-centre/what-is-remote-access-takeover/
########Top of main content 
Financial advice for today and tomorrow 
Access a wealth of financial expertise 
Helping you reach your financial goals 
Our relationship management and advice services are here to help you and your family manage your banking and finances, not only for today but to help you plan for and meet your future hopes, dreams and ambitions. 
Apply for HSBC Premier: 
To open a Premier account, you must meet certain financial and other criteria. 
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for HSBC Premier 
Relationship Management Services
As an HSBC Premier customer, you will have access to a range of relationship management services designed to help you and your family thrive
Our aim is to meet your personal needs and circumstances with the service we provide and introduce you to a range of HSBC specialists as appropriate, including regulated Financial Advisers to help achieve this
Premier Financial Advice

If you’re looking for wide-ranging financial advice, our qualified financial advisers can help you create a bespoke financial plan for you and your family. We can help you to:
protect you and your family
save for your children's future and education
plan for your retirement
manage and grow your wealth
pass on your wealth to family and friends
To help you achieve your objectives, we’ll recommend from a wide range of investment products and protection policies - hand-picked from a limited number of carefully selected providers, including HSBC. 
Available to customers who are residents in the UK, Channel Islands and Isle of Man. Fees and eligibility criteria apply.
Managing and growing your own portfolio
Get personalised online investment advice to help you plan for a better future
Choose a ready-made HSBC portfolio that matches your preferred level of risk
Use our online fund platform to build and manage your own portfolio of funds from HSBC and other leading asset managers
Use online sharedealing to buy and sell UK and US shares, exchange-traded funds and bonds with tools to help you make informed investment decisions.

Fees and eligibility criteria apply.

Bear in mind, the value of investments (and any income received from them) can fall as well as rise and you may not get back what you invest.

Most investments should be held over the medium to long-term and therefore you should be prepared to commit for at least 5 years.
Eligibility criteria 
HSBC Premier is available to you, if you pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account and have either:
savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or
an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK: a mortgage, investment, life insurance or protection product.
Or if you’ve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another country or region.
Please review our complete eligibility criteria before applying 
HSBC Premier Bank Account eligibility criteria 
If you'd like to open an HSBC Premier Account, please ensure you fulfil all the following criteria:
You are 18 years or older
Your residential address is within the EU, or, if you live outside the EU, you can still apply for a HSBC Premier account subject to local rules and regulations and meeting the UK proof of address
You can provide us with certified proof of your identity and address and one month's bank statements from your current bank (translated into English if appropriate)
If you are resident in the UK, you are happy for us to undertake a credit register search
In order to qualify for lending, savings and travel insurance benefits and preferential rates you will need to be a UK resident. This is subject to status and meeting HSBC's proof of UK address requirement.
For eligibility purposes, please note: HSBC in the UK excludes M&S Bank, first direct and HSBC Expat. For the second criteria listed above (‘an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK’), in the case of a joint account, at least one of the parties must have an individual annual income of at least £75,000. The investment, life insurance or protection products also include those purchased through one of HSBC's advisers.
HSBC Premier Travel Insurance eligibility criteria 
Are you under 70 years of age when your trip starts? Note: When you reach 70, you will no longer be covered by HSBC Premier Travel Insurance.
Are you a resident of the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are you registered with a doctor in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man and liable to pay local taxes?
Are you going to start and finish your trip in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are there any dependent children aged under 18 at the start of the trip or under 23 if they are in full-time education and live with you outside term time? (Children will only be covered when travelling with the account holder or their domestic partner, or whilst travelling abroad on their own to visit and stay with close relatives for the duration of the trip.)
You will need to call the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline on 0800 051 7457 before booking your trip if you or any insured person in the last 12 months has been prescribed medication, have received or are awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations, been referred to a specialist or admitted to hospital for any condition not listed on the accepted conditions list in the Your Health section in the policy booklet. You should also tell us before you travel if there has been any changes to your health or you have been referred to a consultant/specialist or admitted to hospital.
There is no cover for undiagnosed symptoms or any claim where you knew at the time of opening your HSBC Premier Bank Account or booking your trip (whichever is later) that you or your travelling companion may be unable to travel or may need to come home early e.g. illness of a close relative or travel companion.
Pre-existing conditions are not covered at an\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/advice-today-tomorrow/
########Top of main content 
Emergency assistance 
Get the help you need in an emergency 
Get peace of mind when you and your family travel abroad 
As a Premier customer, you're not just with a UK bank, you're with an international bank - which is why should anything unexpected happen, you'll receive the emergency assistance you need.
For example, if your credit cards are lost or stolen, we can replace them within 36 hours. Or, if your cash is lost or stolen, we can arrange an emergency cash transfer of up to US $2,000 at 245,000 locations worldwide.
If you're calling from outside the UK, phone +44 1226 260 260.
Our 24-hour telephone banking is subject to scheduled maintenance periods. To help us continually improve our service and in the interests of security, we may monitor and/or record your telephone call with us.
Apply for HSBC Premier: 
To open a Premier account, you must meet certain financial and other criteria.
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for HSBC Premier 
Eligibility criteria 
HSBC Premier is available to you, if you pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account and have either:
savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or
an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK: a mortgage, investment, life insurance or protection product.
Or if you’ve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another country/region.
Please review our complete eligibility criteria before applying 
HSBC Premier Bank Account eligibility criteria 
If you'd like to open an HSBC Premier Account, please ensure you fulfil all the following criteria:
you are 18 years or older
your residential address is within the EU, or, if you live outside the EU, you can still apply for a HSBC Premier account subject to local rules and regulations and meeting the UK proof of address
you can provide us with certified proof of your identity and address and one month's bank statements from your current bank (translated into English if appropriate)
if you are resident in the UK, you are happy for us to undertake a credit register search
in order to qualify for lending, savings and travel insurance benefits and preferential rates you will need to be a UK resident. This is subject to status and meeting HSBC's proof of UK address requirement
For eligibility purposes, please note: HSBC in the UK excludes M&S Bank, first direct and HSBC Expat. For the second criteria listed above (‘an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK’), in the case of a joint account, at least one of the parties must have an individual annual income of at least £75,000. The investment, life insurance or protection products also include those purchased through one of HSBC's advisers.
HSBC Premier Travel Insurance eligibility criteria 
Are you under 70 years of age when your trip starts? Note: When you reach 70, you will no longer be covered by HSBC Premier Travel Insurance.
Are you a resident of the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are you registered with a doctor in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man and liable to pay local taxes?
Are you going to start and finish your trip in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are there any dependent children aged under 18 at the start of the trip or under 23 if they are in full-time education and live with you outside term time? (Children will only be covered when travelling with the account holder or their domestic partner, or whilst travelling abroad on their own to visit and stay with close relatives for the duration of the trip.)
You will need to call the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline on 0800 051 7457 before booking your trip if you or any insured person in the last 12 months has been prescribed medication, have received or are awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations, been referred to a specialist or admitted to hospital for any condition not listed on the accepted conditions list in the 'Your Health' section in the policy booklet. You should also tell us before you travel if there has been any changes to your health or you have been referred to a consultant/specialist or admitted to hospital.
There is no cover for undiagnosed symptoms or any claim where you knew at the time of opening your HSBC Premier Bank Account or booking your trip (whichever is later) that you or your travelling companion may be unable to travel or may need to come home early e.g. illness of a close relative or travel companion.
Pre-existing conditions are not covered at any time under the policy unless listed within the accepted conditions list or have been disclosed to and accepted in writing by the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline.
You must also declare any serious illness, injury or disease suffered by anyone whose health may cause you to cancel or abandon your travel plans, such as a close relative or travelling companion.
Pre-existing medical conditions are not covered at any time under the policy unless they have been disclosed to and accepted in writing by the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline.
Apply for an HSBC Premier Bank Account 
If you meet the eligibility criteria above and have read the Important Documents below and are ready to enjoy the benefits of becoming an HSBC Premier customer, take the next step and contact us:
Apply by phone 
Call us on 0800 328 1296
From outside the UK: +44 1226 260 260
Lines are open 08:00 – 20:00 every day (except for Christmas Day, Boxing Day and New Year’s Day.
Apply in branch 
It's usually quickest to apply online, but if you're having trouble with your application, we're here to help - just head to our contact us page.
Existing HSBC Premier customers 
For more information or telephone banking, please call:
In the UK: 03457 707070
From outside the UK: +44 1226 260 260
Lines are open 08:00 – 20:00 every day.
Brochures and key facts 
HSBC Premier is subject to status. We'll review your ac\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/worldwide/emergency-assistance/
########Top of main content 
Forces Help to Buy 
Help for those serving in the armed forces 
Flexibility for those on active service 
We recognise the unique nature of life in the armed forces. That's why we provide extra flexibility to personnel on active service, in addition to all our mortgage benefits that come as standard.
Whether you're looking to get on the property ladder for the first time, thinking about changing your mortgage provider or just want to explore your options as an existing HSBC mortgage customer, you can count on our support. Read on for all the ways we make mortgages easier for serving personnel.
Mortgages that work for, not against you 
We don't see why a job in the armed forces should make it more challenging to buy a home. So, with an HSBC mortgage, you can:
apply on residential terms, even if you're going to be relocated in the UK or overseas
apply for extra borrowing on your property if your circumstances change, even if you are relocated in the UK or overseas (subject to our usual residential criteria)
apply for borrowing up to the date you intend to stop working instead of your mandatory retirement date from the armed forces
Moving your mortgage or being deployed? 
As an existing mortgage customer with HSBC, you can also take advantage of the favourable terms we offer armed forces personnel. So, if you need to move away for a deployment either in the UK or overseas, you can:
apply for 'consent to let' that will allow you to rent out your main home to paying tenants on your existing residential mortgage, without having to transfer to a buy to let mortgage
discuss a suitable consent to let period with us, based on the time you expect to be away - just let us know if your situation changes and we'll be happy to review this period for you
If you would like to discuss whether obtaining consent to let would be right for you, please contact us by:
calling 0800 169 6333†
sending us a secure email message from online bankingonline banking This link will open in a new window
And to simplify making mortgage applications while serving overseas, we accept your British Forces Post Office (BFPO) address and do not require permanent UK resident status.
Getting on the property ladder 
You could be eligible for the forces Help to Buy scheme, which helps servicemen and women buy their own property. It lets you borrow up to 50% of your salary interest-free - to a maximum of £25,000 - to put towards buying your first home or moving to a new one.
If you’d like to apply for an HSBC mortgage using the Forces Help to Buy scheme, please call us on 0800 1696333†.
Funds are limited, but the scheme has now been extended until the end of 2022.
For full details, see the Government guidance websiteGovernment guidance website This link will open in a new window.
Ready to get started with a mortgage application?
How much could I borrow Find and compare Find and compare tools for mortgage products This link will open in a new window 
Contact us 
0800 1696333†
How to apply
By phone 
By phone 
Step 1 - Call us to get a Decision in Principle
Step 2 - Provide us with your supporting documents
Step 3 - Arrange an appointment with a Mortgage Advisor who will provide you with advice and guide you through your application.
Call us 
0800 169 6333†
Textphone: 1 8001 0800 028†
In branch 
In branch 
Step 1 - Visit your local branch and get a Decision in Principle
Step 2 - Arrange an appointment with a Mortgage Advisor and provide us with your supporting documents
Step 3 - Your Mortgage Advisor will provide you with advice and guide you through your application.
Find a Branch 
To book an appointment at your local branch please call:
0800 169 6333†
Textphone: 1 8001 0800 028†
Think carefully before securing other debts against your home.
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
† Our lines are open Monday to Friday 08:00 to 20:00, Saturday and Sunday 09:00 to 17:00. Calls may be monitored and recorded. Opening hours within the mortgage departments may vary.
Back to top 
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/guidance/armed-forces/
########Top of main content 
Independent service quality survey results 
Personal current accounts 
Independent service quality survey results 
Personal current accounts 
For the latest published results, please select the region you wish to view below
Great Britain Great Britain Results for Great Britain Northern Ireland Northern Ireland Results for Northern Ireland 
Great Britain 
Independent service quality survey results
Personal current accounts
Published February 2024
As part of a regulatory requirement, an independent survey was conducted to ask approximately 1,000 customers of each of the 16 largest personal current account providers if they would recommend their provider to friends and family. The results represent the view of customers who took part in the survey.
These results are from an independent survey carried out between January 2023 and December 2023 by Ipsos as part of a regulatory requirement.
HSBC UK has published this information at the request of the Competition and Markets Authority so you can compare the quality of service from personal current account providers. In providing this information, we are not giving you any advice or making any recommendation to you and we can only give you information about our own products and services.
Customers with personal current accounts were asked how likely they would be to recommend their provider, their provider’s online and mobile banking services, services in branches and overdraft services to friends and family.
The results show the proportion of customers of each provider, among those who took part in the survey, who said they were ’extremely likely’ or ‘very likely’ to recommend each service.
Participating providers: Bank of Scotland, Barclays, first direct, Halifax, HSBC UK, Lloyds Bank, Metro Bank, Monzo, Nationwide, NatWest, Royal Bank of Scotland, Santander, Starling Bank, The Co-operative Bank, TSB, Virgin Money.
Approximately 1,000 customers a year are surveyed across Great Britain for each provider; results are only published where at least 100 customers have provided an eligible score for that service in the survey period.
16,088 people were surveyed in total.
Results are updated every six months, in August and February.
To find out more visit Ipsos.uk/personal-banking-service-qualityIpsos.uk/personal-banking-service-quality This link will open in a new window
Find out more about the additional ways we can support our personal current account customers.
The requirement to publish the Financial Conduct Authority Service Quality Information for personal current accounts can be found here.here. for more information about service quality information
Northern Ireland 
Independent service quality survey results
Personal current accounts
Published February 2024
As part of a regulatory requirement, an independent survey was conducted to ask approximately 500 customers of each of the 11 largest personal current account providers if they would recommend their provider to friends and family. The results represent the view of customers who took part in the survey.
These results are from an independent survey carried out between January 2023 and December 2023 by Ipsos as part of a regulatory requirement.
HSBC UK has published this information at the request of the Competition and Markets Authority so you can compare the quality of service from personal current account providers. In providing this information, we are not giving you any advice or making any recommendation to you and we can only give you information about our own products and services.
Customers with personal current accounts were asked how likely they would be to recommend their provider, their provider’s online and mobile banking services, services in branches and overdraft services to friends and family.
The results show the proportion of customers of each provider, among those who took part in the survey, who said they were ’extremely likely’ or ‘very likely’ to recommend each service.
Participating providers: AIB, Bank of Ireland UK, Barclays, Danske Bank, Halifax, HSBC UK, Monzo, Nationwide, Santander, Starling Bank, Ulster Bank.
Approximately 500 customers a year are surveyed across Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland for each provider; results are only published where at least 100 customers have provided an eligible score for that service in the survey period.
5,535 people were surveyed in total.
Results are updated every six months, in August and February.
To find out more visit Ipsos.uk/personal-banking-service-qualityIpsos.uk/personal-banking-service-quality This link will open in a new window
Find out more about the additional ways we can support our personal current account customers.
The requirement to publish the Financial Conduct Authority Service Quality Information for personal current accounts can be found here.here. For more information about service quality information
Customer support
It's easy to answer your query online. Visit our Help page to find out how.
Follow HSBC UK on Facebook This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on Twitter This link will open in a new window Follow HSBC UK on YouTube This link will open in a new window\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/csqi/
########Top of main content 
Service quality information 
Personal current accounts 
The Financial Conduct Authority requires us to publish the following information about our personal current accounts.
How and when you can contact us to ask about the following things1: 
24 hour help? Telephone Internet banking
Mobile banking 
Contact details
		
Premier customers
03457 70 70 70
All other customers
03457 404 404
	HSBC UK Online Banking2	
HSBC UK Mobile Banking App3
	
Checking the balance and accessing a transaction history
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
Sending money within the UK, including setting up a standing order
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours
	
Sending money outside the UK
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours
	
Paying in a cheque
	Yes	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible
	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours
	
Cancelling a cheque
	Yes
	Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
Cash withdrawal in a foreign currency outside the UK
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
A lack of funds: including unarranged overdrafts, payments we allow despite lack of funds and payments we refuse due to lack of funds
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
A direct debit, or allowing someone to collect one or more payments from your account using your debit card number
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible
	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
Third party access to an account, for example under a power of attorney
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
Problems using internet banking or mobile banking
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
Reporting a suspected fraudulent incident or transaction
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday, 24 hours.
Please mention Fraud as the reason for your call when prompted.
	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
Progress following an account suspension or card cancellation, eg following a fraud incident
	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	Not possible
	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
Account opening: including eligibility for an arranged overdraft, what is required to open an account and an indication of what arranged overdraft may be available	Yes
	
Monday to Sunday, 
08:00 to 20:00

	Not possible	Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
Contact details
	
24 hour help? 	
Telephone 
Premier customers
03457 70 70 70
All other customers
03457 404 404
	
Internet banking
HSBC UK Online Banking2	
Mobile banking 
HSBC UK Mobile Banking App3
	
	
Checking the balance and accessing a transaction history
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
	
Sending money within the UK, including setting up a standing order
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours
	
	
Sending money outside the UK
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours
	
	
Paying in a cheque
	
24 hour help? Yes	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible
	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours
	
	
Cancelling a cheque
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
	
Cash withdrawal in a foreign currency outside the UK
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
	
A lack of funds: including unarranged overdrafts, payments we allow despite lack of funds and payments we refuse due to lack of funds
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
	
A direct debit, or allowing someone to collect one or more payments from your account using your debit card number
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible
	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
	
Third party access to an account, for example under a power of attorney
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
	
Problems using internet banking or mobile banking
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
	
Reporting a suspected fraudulent incident or transaction
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday, 24 hours.
Please mention Fraud as the reason for your call when prompted.
	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
	
Progress following an account suspension or card cancellation, eg following a fraud incident
	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday,
08:00 to 20:00
	
Internet banking
Not possible
	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
	
Account opening: including eligibility for an arranged overdraft, what is required to open an account and an indication of what arranged overdraft may be available	
24 hour help? Yes
	
Telephone 
Monday to Sunday, 
08:00 to 20:00

	
Internet banking
Not possible	
Mobile banking Monday to Sunday, 24 hours	
Note: this is a list of common queries. It does not represent the full list of queries you can raise in relation to your account, or of queries you can raise in one of our branches.
1To speak to a member of staff who has been suitably trained to discuss the action or matter
2Requires registration for HSBC Online Banking
3You must be registered for and use the latest version of the HSBC UK Mobile Banking Ap\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/SQI/
########Top of main content 
What is a joint loan? 
A joint loan (or shared loan) allows you to borrow money with another person you trust, such as a partner, relative, or close friend. 
How do joint loans work? 
A joint loan can help pay for large purchases, such as a new car, or cover the costs of home improvements. Together, you may be able to borrow more money than you could by yourself. 
But taking out a joint loan requires careful thought. You’ll be responsible for paying it back in full – not just your half. 
What types of loans can be joint? 
Many loans can be taken out jointly. These include secured loans, such as mortgages, and unsecured loans, such as personal loans, wedding loans or debt consolidation loans. You can also open a joint bank account with an arranged overdraft. 
Credit cards, however, can’t be taken out jointly. There is a main cardholder who is responsible for paying off the credit card. You can add another cardholder to use the credit, but they won’t be legally responsible for making payments. 
Explore: Secured vs unsecured loans explained
Things to consider 
Here are some things to consider before taking out a joint loan:
You have to meet your monthly loan repayments 
You must repay the loan each month, even if your financial situation were to change – so factor this into your budget. 
Missed loan repayments can affect your credit score, and your ability to borrow in the future. Your home could also be repossessed if you fail to meet your mortgage repayments. 
You're responsible for paying back the loan in full 
You’ll be responsible for paying back the total amount of the loan – not just your half. So, if one of you fails to pay, the other person must repay the loan each month.
Even if your partner spent the money or owns the item(s) purchased using the loan, you’re both still responsible. 
Loan repayments still need to be made after a separation 
A relationship breakdown can be difficult and may affect your finances. Repayments on joint loans, including mortgages, still need to be made after a separation. Although, it’s worth letting your bank know if you’ve separated. 
A partner’s poor credit history can affect your own 
When you have a joint loan or joint debt with someone, your credit history will be linked to theirs. If you decide to borrow money in the future, in your name, the lender can take the other person’s credit history into account – not just your own.

It’s a good idea to check your credit report before you apply and ask your partner to do the same. 
There may be fees and charges 
Before taking out a joint loan, make sure you're both aware of the terms and conditions of the loan, including any fees and charges. 
Before you apply 
Check that all your information is accurate, including the details in your credit report. And make sure you only apply if you feel comfortable taking out a joint loan with the other person.
How to apply for a joint loan 
The easiest way to submit a joint loan application with us is to visit your local branch, where our staff can help.
Find your nearest HSBC branch
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC loans 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
Pros and cons of joint borrowing 
Merging your money 
How to save money as a couple\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/loans/what-is-a-joint-loan/
########Top of main content 
Tips for using your credit card 
When used in the right way, a credit card can help you spread the cost of purchases, earn reward points, manage debt and build your credit score. 
These tips can give you confidence you’re using your credit card effectively.
1. Choose the right credit card for you 
Your choice of credit card will depend on your goals. Do you want to make a big purchase? Are you looking to earn points for spending? Or, do you want to consolidate your credit card balances? 
When you're shopping around, compare the representative annual percentage rate (APR) offered by different cards, as well as any fees and charges.
2. Use the interest-free period wisely 
Some providers offer an introductory 0% interest period on balance transfers and/or purchases. This can help you manage debt by giving you more time to clear your balance before being charged interest. 
Keep in mind, you should always make sure you can afford to repay anything you spend on a credit card. You’ll also be charged interest on the outstanding balance, once the interest-free period ends.
3. Pay more than the minimum 
To use your credit card without having to pay interest on purchases, pay off your balance in full every month. This can also help you avoid building up debt. If you can't do this, it still makes sense to pay more than the minimum in order to reduce the amount of interest you'll pay. If it helps, you can stagger your repayments through the month so you chip away at the debt.
Explore: Tips for paying off your credit card
4. Automate your credit card repayments 
Sometimes when you’re busy, it can feel difficult to manage all your bills and repayments. This can lead to late payment fees and damage your credit rating. The easiest way to make sure your credit card repayments are always made on time is to set up a Direct Debit.
5. Have the right credit card limit 
You should be comfortable with the amount you spend on your credit card. To make sure this is the case, your credit limit should be set at the right level for you. If you need a little extra flexibility, and you know you can afford it, you can always ask your lender to increase your credit card limit. On the other hand, if you're worried about being tempted to overspend, you can ask for it to be reduced.
6. Let your credit card protect you 
Using a credit card for purchases of over £100 (and under £30,000) can offer you protection under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act if something goes wrong with the purchase. For example, you may be able to get a refund if a company goes bust before delivering your goods.
7. Look for rewards 
Many credit cards offer rewards such as cashback, air miles or points that can be redeemed in stores or online. There are lots of different offers available, so you can shop around and check credit card details to find the offer that appeals to you.
While rewards are good, don’t get swept up in them. Make sure all the conditions of the card suit you – such as the interest rate and annual fee.
8. Make the most of balance transfers 
Balance transfer credit cards can be a good solution if you're looking for breathing space to pay off your credit card bills. To get the best deal for you, make sure you understand the balance transfer fee you'll pay and the length of the interest-free period.
Explore: What is a balance transfer?
Back to top Back to top of the page 
What next? 
HSBC credit cards 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to improve your credit score 
How to avoid credit card charges 
Using your credit card overseas\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/credit-cards/tips-for-using-your-credit-card/
########Top of main content 
How rising living costs affect home buyers 
With higher interest rates and household bills, many homeowners are feeling the pinch. But what does it mean for those trying to buy a property? 
As the cost of living increases, including your monthly bills, you may be wondering whether it’s best to buy a home now, or wait. 
The best time to buy a property is not the same for everyone. It’s important to consider your financial situation and understand how buying a home will impact your monthly outgoings.
Here are a few things to consider to help you decide.
What impacts property prices? 
According to the Bank of England, house prices tend to rise when interest rates are low.11 anchors to footnote 1 This is because more people can afford to borrow and buy property – increasing demand. 
When interest rates are high, demand drops, which can reduce house prices.
However, many things can affect property prices, including location. Prices may be higher where supply is low – if fewer houses are built, or don’t come on the market very often in a certain area, for example.
What impacts the mortgage rates that are available? 
As the Bank of England base rate changes, so can mortgage rates. But it’s important to understand that mortgage rates and mortgage payments aren’t just determined by interest rates. 
How this affects you depends on various factors, including:
the size of your home deposit 
the amount you borrow 
the type of mortgage you take out 
the mortgage term 
If you’re able to save up for a larger deposit – this will increase your options to find a better mortgage deal. The more you borrow, and the longer you’d like to repay the mortgage – the more interest you’ll pay overall. 
How much will your monthly repayments be? 
You can use our mortgage repayment calculator to give you an idea of what your repayments could be, based on the interest rate, term and repayment type you select.
Buying a property can be an exciting and rewarding experience but you need to be mindful of the various costs involved. As well as the mortgage payment, you may have other costs – such as utility bills, Council Tax, home insurance and potential repairs – that come with owning your own place. 
There are also additional costs to consider when buying a property, including potential Stamp Duty and legal fees. 
Explore: Buying a property: How much could you afford?
Your home may be repossessed if you do not keep up repayments on your mortgage.
1Source: Bank of England: How does the housing market affect the economy? Bank of England: How does the housing market affect the economy? This link will open in a new window
Back to top 
What next? 
How to apply for a mortgage with HSBC 
Share 
facebook 
twitter 
pinterest 
linkedin 
email 
Explore more 
How to deal with rising living costs 
Ways to help you get a mortgage 
Help with your mortgage payments as living costs rise\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/mortgages/how-rising-living-costs-affect-home-buyers/
########Top of main content 
Financial fitness
Our financial fitness hub gives you the tools you need to help work your money
9 steps to financial fitness 
Getting your finances in shape can make a big difference to you wellbeing. Learn about the good money habits that can put you on the right path. 
Helping you improve your financial fitness 
Our step-by-step guides and calculators can set you on the right track, no matter what kind of help you're looking for. 
I want to know how to budget 
I want to manage my debt better 
I want to grow my money 
I want to plan for the future 
Find out your financial fitness score with our easy-to-use calculator 
How it works 
Tell us a few details about your finances - including your spending, borrowing and saving.

We'll calculate your financial fitness score.

You'll also get tips to help you set achievable goals to improve your financial health.

You can use the tool again in future to see if your score has improved.
Calculate my fitness score Calculate my fitness score This link will open in a new window 
How the score is calculated 
Your financial fitness score is based on the information you provide in the financial fitness questionnaire. We don't check this information with any third party sources. The score is out of 100 and considers spending, borrowing, and saving. We’ll then show you where you could make changes to help build your financial fitness. This is a guide only and is not financial advice. Your financial fitness score is separate from your credit score. It doesn’t guarantee that you’ll be successful when applying for new banking and lending products. 
Tools to help you 
Benefits calculator 
Billions of pounds of government benefits and allowances are going unclaimed every year. Check what you’re entitled to with this benefits calculator. 
Financial health check 
Our financial fitness trainers are on hand to speak to you about your banking needs – and you don’t have to be an HSBC customer to benefit from this service. 
Online webinars 
Register for one of our free webinars on everything from budgeting to making the most of your money or one of our specific cost of living webinars. 
How to budget 
Managing your everyday spending can give you peace of mind. Here you can learn how to create a budget and take control of your spending with our planning tool. 
How to create a budget 
Take a look at our article on how to set a plan to make managing money easier by breaking your spending down. 
Budget planner calculator 
Take control of your spending with our budget planner calculator. It’ll help you work out where your money goes and see if you can start saving more. 
Find out more about how to budget 
Take a look at our other budgeting guides, videos and tools to help your budgeting and spending. 
Managing debt 
What's happening in your life and the world around you can affect your finances. We're here to help you to prioritise and manage your debts. 
How to prioritise debts 
Take a look at our article on how prioritising your debts may help you feel more in control of your money. 
Ways to borrow 
There are lots of reasons you may want to borrow money. Whether it's for home improvements, buying a new car or paying an unexpected bill, it’s important to understand how you can finance your needs. 
How to manage your debt 
Take a look at our guides, videos and tools to help you manage your debt. 
Growing your money 
Building up your savings can help you achieve goals you’ve set for the future. We have tips on everything from a holiday pot to an emergency fund and even learning how to invest. 
Saving vs investing 
Find out what the difference is between saving and investing, and which could be right for you. 
Savings goal calculator 
Use our calculator to find out how long it will take you to save for that special purchase. 
How to grow your money 
Take a look at our guides, videos and tools to help you grow your money. 
Planning for the future 
We'll help you on the way to achieving your ideal retirement lifestyle. Try our retirement calculator and work out how much you'll need in later life. 
Life events 
Take a look at our article on where to start when you want to grow your money. 
Calculate your retirement lifestyle 
Take our quiz to work out your ideal retirement lifestyle and how much you may need to achieve it. 
Retirement 
Take a look at our other retirement guides, videos and tools to help you plan for later life. 
Our money guides 
Rising cost of living 
Energy, food and living costs have been going up. Here, you'll find ideas on how to cut back on spending and ways to reduce the stress. 
Money worries 
If something is happening in your life that means you might need some financial support, we're here to offer support and help. 
Financial education 
Help is at hand for young people of all ages to learn about money. 
Fraud and security 
Learn how to keep your money safe from frauds and scams. 
More tips on how to get financially fit 
Read our guides to the best ways to keep on top of your finances, whatever your circumstances. 
What is the 50-30-20 budget rule? 
Work out where your money’s going and see what positive changes you could make. 
How to save money on energy 
Read our energy saving tips to help lower your bills. 
Understanding your balance 
Use this guide to learn about some of the key terms you might come across when checking your balance. 
What benefits can you claim? 
Find out if you could be missing out on unclaimed government benefits and allowances. 
How to save money on groceries and waste less 
There are plenty of ways you can make savings to cut the cost of food shopping. 
Online money management tools 
Our practical guide can make it easier you work out which tools might be the best ones to help manage your money.\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/help/coronavirus/managing-your-financial-health/
########Top of main content 
Premier Global finances 
Specialist assistance is at hand, wherever you are 
Helping you thrive around the world 
As a global bank, we are well placed to help you with your international finances. Whether it’s you or your money moving around the world, you can count on us to help make life easier. 
Apply for HSBC Premier: 
To open a Premier account, you must meet certain financial and other criteria. 
Check eligibility and how to apply Check eligibility and how to apply for HSBC Premier 
Moving abroad
Open your account in your new country/region before you arrive
If you qualify for Premier in the UK, you will be eligible in your new country/region1
We will transfer your credit history with us
Overseas account will be open in 10 days on receipt of completed application2
Discover more ways our International Services can help you in your international adventures 
Guidance if you’re moving overseas with HSBC ExpatHSBC Expat This link will open in a new window
1Available in more than 20 countries and regions including Australia and Hong Kong (subject to local rules and regulations).
2Subject to qualification, status and local laws and regulations.
Managing your money internationally
Global View allows you to see all your Premier accounts globally from a single logon
Global Transfers allow you to move your money between your accounts, fee free
HSBC Currency Accounts are available in 14 different major currencies and no account fee
Send money outside the UK with speed, ease and convenience; fees may apply
Travelling abroad
Worldwide Travel InsuranceWorldwide Travel Insurance This link will open in a new window3 for you and your family (if under the age of 70). To be eligible you must be resident in the UK, registered with a doctor in the UK and liable for local taxes
Emergency assistance if you lose your money or cards abroad
Travel Money made easy - just click & collect
3Includes Channel Islands and Isle of Man. Provided by Aviva Insurance Limited, terms and conditions apply. 
Eligibility criteria 
HSBC Premier is available to you, if you pay your annual income into your HSBC Premier Bank Account and have either:
savings or investments of at least £50,000 with HSBC in the UK; or
an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK: a mortgage, investment, life insurance or protection product.
Or if you’ve already qualified for HSBC Premier in another country/region.
Please review our complete eligibility criteria before applying 
HSBC Premier Bank Account eligibility criteria 
If you'd like to open an HSBC Premier Account, please ensure you fulfil all the following criteria:
You are 18 years or older
Your residential address is within the EU, or, if you live outside the EU, you can still apply for a HSBC Premier account subject to local rules and regulations and meeting the UK proof of address
You can provide us with certified proof of your identity and address and one month's bank statements from your current bank (translated into English if appropriate)
If you are resident in the UK, you are happy for us to undertake a credit register search
In order to qualify for lending, savings and travel insurance benefits and preferential rates you will need to be a UK resident. This is subject to status and meeting HSBC's proof of UK address requirement.
For eligibility purposes, please note: HSBC in the UK excludes M&S Bank, first direct and HSBC Expat. For the second criteria listed above (‘an individual annual income of at least £75,000 and one of the following products with HSBC in the UK’), in the case of a joint account, at least one of the parties must have an individual annual income of at least £75,000. The investment, life insurance or protection products also include those purchased through one of HSBC's advisers.
HSBC Premier Travel Insurance eligibility criteria 
Are you under 70 years of age when your trip starts? Note: When you reach 70, you will no longer be covered by HSBC Premier Travel Insurance.
Are you a resident of the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are you registered with a doctor in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man and liable to pay local taxes?
Are you going to start and finish your trip in the UK, Channel Islands or Isle of Man?
Are there any dependent children aged under 18 at the start of the trip or under 23 if they are in full-time education and live with you outside term time? (Children will only be covered when travelling with the account holder or their domestic partner, or whilst travelling abroad on their own to visit and stay with close relatives for the duration of the trip.)
You will need to call the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline on 0800 051 7457 before booking your trip if you or any insured person in the last 12 months has been prescribed medication, have received or are awaiting medical treatment, tests or investigations, been referred to a specialist or admitted to hospital for any condition not listed on the accepted conditions list in the 'Your Health' section in the policy booklet. You should also tell us before you travel if there has been any changes to your health or you have been referred to a consultant/specialist or admitted to hospital.
There is no cover for undiagnosed symptoms or any claim where you knew at the time of opening your HSBC Premier Bank Account or booking your trip (whichever is later) that you or your travelling companion may be unable to travel or may need to come home early e.g. illness of a close relative or travel companion.
Pre-existing conditions are not covered at any time under the policy unless listed within the accepted conditions list or have been disclosed to and accepted in writing by the HSBC Medical Risk Assessment Helpline.
You must also declare any serious illness, injury or disease suffered by anyone whose health may cause you to cancel or abandon your travel plans, such as a close relative or travelling companion.
Pre-existing m\Details in the link: https://www.hsbc.co.uk/current-accounts/products/premier/worldwide/
########